<!-- Section 11 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 11 OF 13: Management and Governance
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  Management and Governance

In this next section, we'll cover management and governance ways to monitor how your systems are being used with CloudWatch and CloudTrail, and how to visualize that information with Amazon QuickSight. How to manage the configuration and deployment of your systems with AWS config and AWS CloudFormation, and how to manage your costs with AWS budgets and Cost Explorer. We're getting close to the end of the course, so hang in there. Let's dive in to Management and Governance.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Metrics

So now, let's talk about Amazon CloudWatch. And the first service I wanna talk about within CloudWatch is CloudWatch Metrics. So CloudWatch provides metrics for every services out there in AWS, and so, therefore, you can monitor everything that's happening in your accounts. And a metric is just a variable you wanna monitor. For example, for an EC2 instance, it could be the CPUUtilization, the NetworkIn, and so on. For Amazon S3, it could be your bucket size and so on. So metrics belong to namespaces, and, therefore, they are bucketed in two different namespaces. You have one namespace per service, basically. So you have dimensions, and they are attributes of a metric. For example, a metric about CPUUtilization can be related to a specific instance id, or a specific environment, and so on. And you have up to 30 dimensions per metric. So the metrics are time-based, so, therefore, they must have a timestamp. And then once you have a lot of metrics, you can create a CloudWatch dashboard of metrics so that you can see them all at once in a specific manner. Also, you can create CloudWatch Custom Metrics. So instead of relying on the metrics that are provided by every services in AWS, you can create your own custom metric. For example, to extract the memory usage out of an EC2 instance. That is a classic use case of using a CloudWatch Custom Metric. The other thing you can do with your CloudWatch Metrics is to stream them outside of CloudWatch. So the idea is that you want to continuously stream CloudWatch Metrics to a destination of your choice. You're gonna get near real-time delivery and low latency. And that destination is Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, and from there, you can send it to anywhere you want. Or you can also send your CloudWatch Metrics directly into a third-party service provider, such as Datadog, Dynatrace, New Relic, Splunk, Sumo Logic, and so on. So how does that work? Well, your CloudWatch Metrics are going to be streamed near real-time into Kinesis Data Firehose, and you obviously have to set that up for it to work. And from Kinesis Data Firehose you can, for example, send them into an Amazon S3 bucket from which you can use Amazon Athena to analyze your data in Amazon S3, or you can use Amazon Redshift to have a data warehousing for your metrics, or Amazon OpenSearch to build dashboards from Amazon OpenSearch, or do analytics there. And you can have the choice to stream all your metrics for all your namespaces or to only filter a few namespaces in so that you only have a subset of your metrics filtered and sent to Kinesis Data Firehose. Now let's go have a look in the console. So when you are in the CloudWatch dashboard on the left-hand side, there is Metrics, and you can find all the metrics. Now, as you can see, we see all the namespaces in here for our metrics. If you have a look, we have, based on services, for example, ELB, Auto Scaling, EBS, EC2, EFS, and so on. So a lot of information given to you here. So we can click on EC2, and we can have a per instance metric just to see one metric. And I'm going to type credit to see the CPUCreditBalance, for example. I will take this instance, which was created a long time ago, and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to choose a custom range, which is going to be one month, to find some data in here. Okay, so we have the data here. And so, the cool thing with CloudWatch Metrics is that you can just click and select the time span you want. And here we go, we're getting some information around our metrics. So, as you can see, we get metrics every five minutes here. So every data point is every five minutes because detailed monitoring was not enabled for this instance, okay, but if I did enable detail monitoring, I would get data every one minute. So this is just the basics of CloudWatch Metrics. Nothing too, too fancy, but we can definitely filter by time. We can view it as a different line, so Stacked area, or Line, or Number, or Pie chart. You can add it to a dashboard. You can download it to a .csv. You can share it, okay. So CloudWatch Metric is very very handy, and you can have a look at all the metrics, you know, based on the region you want, based on the dimension you want, the resource id you want, so you can filter everything. So that's it for CloudWatch Metrics. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Logs

So, now let's talk about CloudWatch Logs. So CloudWatch Logs is the perfect place to store your application logs in AWS. And to do so, you must first define log groups. They're whatever names you want, but usually they are representing one of your applications. Then within a log group, you will have multiple log streams, and they represent log instances within an application or specific log files or specific containers that you have as part of a cluster. Then you define your log expiration policy. So you can have the logs re being retained indefinitely to never expire, or you can choose to expire them from anywhere between one day to 10 years. It's also possible to send your CloudWatch Logs into various destinations. For example, to export them in batch into Amazon S3 or to stream them into Kinesis Data Streams, Kinesis Data Firehose, AWS Lambda, Amazon OpenSearch. All the logs are encrypted by default, and you can set up your own KMS-based encryption with your own keys if you wanted to. So, now what kind of logs data goes into CloudWatch Logs? Now, what types of logs can go into CloudWatch Logs? Well, we can send the logs using the SDK or the CloudWatch Logs Agent or the CloudWatch Unified Agent. Now, the CloudWatch Unified Agents send logs to CloudWatch and so the CloudWatch Log Agent is now sort of deprecated. You have Elastic Beanstalk, which is used to collect logs from the application directly into CloudWatch. ECS will send the logs directly from the containers into CloudWatch. Lambda will send logs from the functions themselves. VPC Flow Logs will send logs specific to your VPC metadata network traffic. API Gateway will send all the requests made to the API Gateway into CloudWatch Logs. CloudTrail, you can send the logs directly based on the filter. And Route53 will log all the DNS queries made to its service. So, what if you wanted to query the logs in CloudWatch Logs? For this, you can use CloudWatch Logs Insights. So, it's a querying capability within CloudWatch Logs which allows you to write your query. You specify the timeframe you want to apply your query to and then automatically you're going to get a result as a visualization. And also, you can view the specific log lines that's made this visualization. This visualization can also be exported either as a result or added to a dashboard for being able to rerun it whenever you want. So this is very handy, and this will allow you to search and analyze log data within CloudWatch Logs. So there are lots of simple queries provided as part of the console for CloudWatch Logs Insights. For example, you can find the most 25 most recent events, or you can have a look at how many events had exceptions or errors in your logs, or you can look for a specific IP and so on. So, it provides a purpose-built query language. All the fields to allow you to build your queries are automatically detected from CloudWatch Logs, and then you can filter based on conditions. You can calculate aggregate statistics, you can sort events, limit the number of events, and so on. So as I said, you can save the queries and also add them to CloudWatch Dashboards. And you have the capability to query multiple log groups at a time, even if they are in different accounts. So remember, CloudWatch Logs Insights is a query engine, not a real-time engine. And so as such, it will only query historical data when you run the query. So as mentioned, CloudWatch Logs can be exported into several destinations. The first one is Amazon S3. So this is for a batch export to send all your logs into Amazon S3, and this export can take up to 12 hours to be completed. The API call to initiate this export is called CreateExportTask. So because this is a batch export, this is not real-time or near real-time. Instead, you must use the CloudWatch Logs subscription. So these allow you to get a real-time stream of these log events, and you can do processing and analysis. So, you can send this data into multiple places such as Kinesis Data Streams, Kinesis Data Firehose, or Lambda. And you can specify a subscription filter to say which kind of log events you want to be delivered to your destination. So, the subscription filter can send data into Kinesis Data Streams. This would be a great choice if you wanted to use, for example, the integration with Kinesis Data Firehose, Kinesis Data Analytics, or Amazon EC2, or Lambda. You can also directly send it into Kinesis Data Firehose. From there, you can send it in near real-time fashion into Amazon S3, or for example, the OpenSearch Service, or you have Lambda. So you can write your own custom Lambda function, or you can use a managed Lambda function that is sending data in real-time into the OpenSearch Service. On top of it, thanks to these subscription filters, it is possible for you to aggregate data from different CloudWatch Logs into different accounts and different regions into a common destination such as the Kinesis Data Stream in one specific accounts. And then Kinesis Data Firehose. And then in near real-time into Amazon S3. So that is very possible, and that is a way for you to perform log aggregation. So the nitty gritty of how this works is that you must use what's called destinations. So, let's say you have a sender account and the recipient accounts. So you create a CloudWatch Log subscription filter, and then this gets sent into a subscription destination, which is a virtual representant of the Kinesis Data Stream in the recipient accounts. Then you attach a destination access policy to allow the first account to actually send data into this destination. Then you create an IAM role in the recipient account, which has the permission to send records into your Kinesis Data Stream, and you make sure that this role can be assumed by the first account. And when you have all these things in place, then it is possible for you to send data from CloudWatch Logs in one account into a destination in another account. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Logs - Hands On

Okay, So I am in CloudWatch logs and we can see all the log groups we have right now. So as you can see, we have eight of them and they were created by some services. For example, this one was created by Lambda. This one was created by datasync. This one was created by glue and this one was created by us when we did do an SSM runCommand and we wanted the output to be populated in this log group. So, if we take a look at this example, for example, we have six log streams and so each of them represents a different instance that we did run a specific run command on. So, this is the same runcommond ID across the six. Here, we have a different instance ID for each of the six, so two and two and then we have, stdout and stderr. So if you look at stdout, we can look at all the logs that was generated by this command and we can have a look at all the log lines and so on. So this is quite (indistinct). And the idea is that, from the log for example, you can look through the keyword http and it would show you all the log lines that contain the word htp. If you just look for the word installing, for example, it will show you just maybe two or three log lines that contain the word installing. So that's certainly (indistinct). And so we have, for stdout, stderr, so we can see really the idea behind different log streams. Now, we can create metric filters in here, and these metric filters is a way for us to find a filter pattern. For example, installing. Okay, And then we need to select for example, a custom data, for example, this log stream and then we test a pattern and it's going to give us three matches out of five in the simple logs. Now, if you went ahead with entering this filter name, as we can see, it could call it DemoFilter and DemometricFilter. And this is a new namespace, okay. And here is DemoMetric. So this is DemoMetric filter namespace, and this is a DemometricFilter. And then, the metric value, okay. When there is a filter pattern or matching occur and so, you can say one for example, to add one and to count how many times this installing lines have been filmed. And the default value and the unit if you want it to, then click on next, create and this will give you a new metrics so, if you went into CloudWatch metric right here and we're going to clear this graph and we're going to find a new metrics. So let's refresh this page. Maybe this is going to help us. Okay, so if we go to all new spaces, as soon as this metric filter would appear, it would appear right here and we could visualize it. But currently, because we don't send any log output, then we don't see it. But the idea is that, we could create an alarm on top of this metric filter So we can click on create alarm. and this would allow us to create an alarm in case, for example, a metric went over a specific value and again, this metric is calculated based on the filter from the log streams. We could also create subscription filters. So as you can see here, we can create a filter for different outcomes. So Elasticsearch, Kinesis, datastreams, Kinesis Firehose or a Lambda subscription filter if you want to send data into custom lambda functions. And, we can create up to two subscription filters per log group according to this, okay. Now, we can also edit the retention settings. So, we can see that the logs can never expire all the way up to 120 months. Okay, so 10 years. And then, we can also export the data into Amazon S3. So you can click on export data You can choose a range of data to export and then, the stream prefix, if you wanted to just get specific log streams, and then the S3 buckets and the bucket prefix, and you'd be good to go. And the finally, in here, you can create a log group (indistinct) demo-log-group. Okay, you can set up the retention settings. KMS key, if you wanted to encrypt that log group and then click on create. And so, the encryption setting would appear then here, if a KMS key ID was specified. Okay and then finally, CloudWatch Logs Insights, is allowing you to use a nice query language to query some specific log groups. So for example, we can create this one and run the query. And then, this is not going to give us any data because we're looking for data from the past hour. But if we look at data from the past 60 days and run this query, maybe we'll find something. So you can see, we found 18 records from this query. And so, this gives us a nice query language to start gaining some insights on top of our logs. And on top of it, you can export the results if you want it to. And on the right hand side, you can see that you can save your queries. Okay? So you can query and save them here. Or, you can look at some simple queries and view the use cases of losing log insights for example, view the latency statistics for a five minute interval on Lambda, or get the top 10 by transfers by source and destination IP addresses for VPC flow logs. So it gives you, for example, if you should click on these, some nice insights to how the query language works for CloudWatch logs insights. So this is CloudWatch logs. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Logs Unified Agent

Now let's talk about how we can use something called the CloudWatch Agents to take logs from EC2 instances, as well as metrics and have them onto CloudWatch. So by default, no logs are going from your EC2 instance from CloudWatch. For this, you need to create and start an agent which is a small program on your EC2 instances that will push the log files that you want. So the idea, is that your easy EC2 instances will have the CloudWatch Log Agents, for example running sending the logs into CloudWatch Logs for it to work. Your EC2 instance must have an IAM role that allows it to send the log to CloudWatch Logs, that make sense? And good to notice that this CloudWatch log agents can also be setup on-premises servers. So it's possible for you to have your services, virtual servers like VM-ware on premises and you install the exact same agent, which is a small Linux Program and your logs will end up in CloudWatch Logs as well. Now, there are two different agents you can find in CloudWatch. You have the CloudWatch Logs Agent, which is the older one and the CloudWatch Unified Agent, which is the newer one. So they're both for virtual servers EC2 instances on premises servers, et cetera. The CloudWatch Logs Agents is the old version and can only send logs to CloudWatch Logs. Whereas the Unified Agents, will collect additional system level metrics which has RAM, processes. I'll show you this in the very next slide, and also send the logs into CloudWatch Logs. Now it's unified. It's better because it can do both metrics and logs. Hence, the name Unified Agent. But also you can configure that agents very easily using the SSM Parameter Store, which is a feature that the previous agent did not have. So you can do centralized configuration, for all your Unified Agents. So the CloudWatch Unified Agent can send, logs to CloudWatch Logs. But let's have a look at the metrics. So if you install it, on your Institute instances or your Linux servers you can collect metrics, and what are they? Well, we can collect the CPU metrics but at a way more granular levels, for example: active, guest, idle, system, user, steal. You don't need to know them at all. I'm just giving you the granularity of all these metrics. Disc metrics of free use total. Disc IO in terms of number of writes, reads, bytes, iops. RAM so free, inactive, used, total, cached. Netstats with number of TCP and UDP connections, net packets, bytes to get some information around the processes. So in total number of process, I mean your dead, bloqued, idle, running, sleep. And Swap Space, which is a memory spilling on disc. So how much is free use and use percentage? So why don't you remember is just take a a mental screenshot of these things. The bottom line is the CloudWatch Unified Agent allows it. You get a lot more metrics at a lot more granular details than the normal monitoring for EC2 instances. As a reminder out of the box for EC2, you get some information on disk, CPU, and network not memory not swap, but all of this at a high level, okay? If you want more granularity think CloudWatch Unified Agents, okay? So that's it for me. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Alarms

Now let's discuss CloudWatch Alarms. So alarms, as we know, they're used to trigger notifications from any metric. And you can define complex alarms and on various options such as sampling or doing percentage or maximum, and so on. Alarm has three states, OK, it means that it's not triggered, INSUFFICIENT_DATA means that there's not enough data for the alarm to determine a state and ALARM, which is that your threshold has been breached and therefore a notification will be sent. The period is how long you want the alarm to evaluate for on the metric. And so it could be very, very short, very, very long. And it can apply also to high resolution customer metrics. For example, 10 seconds, 30 seconds, or multiple of 60 seconds. Now, alarms have three main targets. The first one is actions on EC2 instances such as stopping it, terminating it, rebooting it, or recovering any instance. The second one is to trigger an auto-scaling action. For example, a scale out or a scale in. And the last one is to send a notification to the SNS service, for example, and from the SNS service, we can hook it to a Lambda function and have the Lambda function do pretty much anything we want based on an alarm being breached. So now let's talk about Composite Alarms, because we know that CloudWatch Alarms are on a single metric, but then if you wanted to have multiple metrics, you would need to use Composite Alarms. So because composite alarms are actually monitoring the states of multiple other alarms, and these alarms can be each relying on one different metric. So the Composite Alarm is the action of combining all these other alarms together, and you can use AND or OR conditions to be able to be very flexible in terms of the condition you're checking for. So it's very helpful to reduce alarm noise because you can create complex Composite Alarms and saying, for example, if the CPU is high and the network is high, then don't alert me because I only wanna know when the CPU is high and the network is a low, these kind of things. So let's take an example, we have an EC2 instance, and we're going to create a composite alarm on top of it. So therefore we create a first underlying alarm called the Alarm A, which is going to monitor the CPU of the EC2 instance. Then you create Alarm B, which is going to monitor the IOPS of the EC2 instance, and then the composite alarm is defined as the junction of Alarm A and Alarm B. And therefore, if Alarm A is in alarm and Alarm B is in alarm, and this is something we have to define ourselves, then the Composite Alarm itself will be an alarm and can trigger, for example, an SNS notification. So as you can see, you can get quite creative with the Composite Alarms. So let's talk about EC2 instance recovery. So we have the status checks and we have the instance status check, which is going to check the EC2 virtual machine. And we have the system status check, which is going to check the underlying layer hardware of our EC2 instance. And finally, the attached EBS status check, which is going to check any attached EBS volumes health. And you can define a CloudWatch Alarm on these checks, okay? So you'll monitor a specific EC2 instance, and in case the alarm is being breach, then you can start an EC2 instance recovery to make sure, for example, that you move your EC2 instance from one host to another. When you do a recovery, you get the same private, public, and elastic IP, the same metadata and the same placement group for your instance. And you can also send an alert to your SNS topic to get alerted that the EC2 instance was being recovered. Now, the cloud alarm has some good stuff. To know that, first of all is that as we've seen, we can create an alarm on top of a CloudWatch logs metric filter. So remember, the CloudWatch logs are having a metric filter, which is hooked to CloudWatch Alarm. And then when we receive too many instances of a specific word, for example, the word error, then do an alert and send a message into Amazon SNS. And so if you wanted to test alarm and notifications, you can use a CLI call called set alarm states. And this is helpful when you want to trigger an alarm, even though it didn't reach a specific threshold because you wanted to see whether or not the alarm being triggered results in the correct action for your infrastructure. So that's it for alarms, I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture for some practice.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudWatch - Alarms - Hands On

Okay, so we are in CloudWatch Alarms, so let's go and create an alarm. So first of all, I'm going to create an EC2 instance very quickly, and we're going to create an alarm on top of the CPU utilization. So we're going ahead and create an EC2 instance of t2 micro. I will go quickly to preview and launch and then say, yes, I have this. So we don't need to keep it or anything like this, we just want the instance to be launched. And the idea is that we want to create an alarm that will terminate the instance, if the CPU goes to 100%, so let's create this alarm. So we need to select a metric. And so for this, we need to choose a metric. So we need to go and find our EC2 instance. So this is our instance ID, right here, and search for it. And I'm maybe a little bit too quick, okay. So let's wait for the instance to be launched. I will go into EC2 per instance metric, and then I will wait for it to be populating. So it took about five minutes for some metrics to appear in that cloud dashboard for my instance. So now I can probably refresh this page and I will get the chance to find the metrics I'm looking for. So let me select a metric and then paste the instance in perfect, I have it, and I will go and find the CPU utilization of my instance. So this is this metric right here. Okay, well, select this metric. As you can see, we have the eight here and then we can choose a way to compute this metric, so average, sum, maximum, and so on. The period we want to evaluate this alarm on. So five minutes is good because this metric gets populated every five minutes, if we don't enable detailed monitoring. Now we get some conditions in terms of the threshold. So is it Static or is it an Anomaly detection? Is it a greater than, equal than, and so on. So I will say for example, if you're a greater than 95% for a long time, so for, and here you can say, three out of three. So that means that for 15 minutes, you're stuck at 95%, then probably something is up with this machine. And so in that case, I could choose a notification. I could choose a Auto Scaling action. I could choose an EC2 action, or in a systems manager action, but I'm going to choose an EC2 action. Okay, and it will say, hey, if you are in alarm, okay, then just terminate this instance because maybe I know that my application sometimes has a huge failure and the CPU installation will be at a 95% or a 100% for a very long time, And the only way to resolve this is to just terminate the instance. So I will choose this, and then click on next, and say terminate, EC2 on high CPU. Click on next to verify everything, and we're good to go. So now this alarm obviously does have insufficient data, so we need to wait 15 minutes for it to be okay, and it's not going to be triggered unless we make it so. So, we could go into the EC2 instance and launch a way to get the CPU very high for 15 minutes, but this would be a very, very long, or we can use the API call name, Set alarm state, to really see what would happen if this alarm went into the breach phase. So let's have a look. This is the history of the alarm, okay. And what I'm going to do is that I'm going to set the alarm to say, so I type AWS CloudWatch, set alarm states, and we'll look at the API reference. And so we need to do set alarm state the alarm name and the state value and the state reason. So we'll do, in here. So AWS CloudWatch set alarm states, and then we need to set multiple parameters. So the alarm name is going to be this one, then the alarm, so the states value is going to be alarm. And the state reason, is going to be testing. We press enter, and now this alarm, if we refer to this page is now in the alarm state, as you can see, it says in alarm. And so the action is, when in alarm terminate the instance. And so if you look at the history, it says that the alarm updated from OK, to in alarm and then an action was made and it's, successfully executed the action to terminate my EC2 instance. So if I go into my EC2 instances here, and I refresh, as we can see is shutting down and is being terminated because while there was an alarm that was triggered on top of this EC2 instance, and we did set up the alarm to do this specific action. So that's it, I hope you liked it. I hope this makes sense to you. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS X-Ray

So, this is to me one of the most revolutionary services that AWS has to offer and I think it is currently underutilized. It's called AWS X-Ray and the exam is really we want you to know about X-Ray. I think this is why they ask two questions because they want people to use it, and I honestly think people should use X-Ray. So, when you do debugging production and I have debugged applications in production in the past, the good old way, what I call the good old way is test locally, add log statements everywhere and redeploying production and from the logs try to figure out what is breaking, what is happening. It's really painful. It's not best practices. Obviously, there are better ways of doing things. I'm just oversimplifying things here, but you get the idea. Debugging production is not fun. And then, if you log stuff, if you have different applications, if you log from different applications to CloudWatch then you know they all have different formats and it's really hard to centralize insights. And navigating CloudWatch logs is gonna be hard. And analytics on top of it, it's going to be hard. So, if you have a monolith, just one huge application doing everything is sort of easy to debug, but if you have distributed services you're running a hundred microservices in your LS accounts, it becomes a nightmare. It's really, really hard to debug what's happening because they all talk to each other, right? So, there's no common view of your entire architecture, your entire service map, et cetera. So, here comes AWS X-Ray. So, X-ray is going to give you a visual analysis of your application. So, this is what we're going to do in the hands-on. We'll see that basically as a client doing a request to our application we will see how many of these requests fail or don't fail. And then, from the application we'll see what it does. So, it will call other IPs, it will call SNS it will call a DynamoDB Table. And so, as you can see, we'll be able to trace exactly, visually what happens when we talk to our EC2 instance. And so, you know from this graph if I ask you where do you think that little orange or yellow error comes from? Well, is it coming from this? No, is it coming from SNS? No, it is coming from my DynamoDB Table. You can see it visually. And so, that's the whole power of tracing. Obviously, you can do more, but you start getting the idea. In terms of X-ray advantages, there's many. You can troubleshoot the performance of your application and identify bottlenecks. You can understand the dependencies in your microservice architecture because you can visually see what is happening and how all your microservices interact with one another. We can pinpoint then which service is giving us issues. We can understand how each request is behaving and then find errors and exception based on the request. We can answer questions such as, are we meeting time SLA in terms of latency or time to process a request? And we can understand which service really slows down, throttles us. Finally, we can know which users are impacted by our errors if we wanted to. So, X-ray has a lot of compatibility. It's compatible with AWS Lambda, Beanstalk, ECS, ELBs, API gateway, and EC2 instances or any application server really, even something you have on premise. So, they really made X-Ray try to be as wide as possible and as applicable as to any application they can. So, X-Ray, how does it work? Well, it leverages something called tracing. And tracing is an end to a way to basically follow a request. So, when I make a request to, for example, my application server, each component that will deal with a request that could be my database, that could be my gateway, my load balancer, my application server. Each component dealing with that request will add its own trace, and so, the trace will be made of segments and segments can be made of sub segments. And the idea is that we can also add annotations to traces to provide extra information around what happened. So, when all these things are together, you have the ability to trace every request or a simple request. So, you say I only want to get a percentage of the total request or maybe five requests per minutes. In terms of security, there is IAM authorization and you can use KMS for encryption at rest. So, once you get all these traces, basically, X-Ray provides its magic and provide this nice little graph that I showed you before. Now, how do you enable X-Ray? Well, you have two ways and I think this is what the exam will ask you about. So, you need to be very careful here. Your code can be Java, Python, Go, Node.js and .Net and it must import the AWS SDK. You need very little code modification, but you still need to do some code modification. And then, the application SDK, the X-Ray SDK, will then capture the calls to the AWS services, the HTTP and HTTPS request and the database calls for MySQL, PostgreSQL and DynamoDB. It can also capture queue calls and so on. Now, the second thing we have to do once we've modified our code is to install the X-Ray daemon or to enable the X-Ray AWS integration. So, if we run on a machine, on-premise server or EC2 instance, we need to install the daemon. And the daemon is basically a little program that works as a low level UDP packet interceptor. It can be running on Linux, Windows, and Mac. And so, you have to install it on your machine. If you use AWS Lambda or other services that already have integration with X-Ray then they will run the daemon for you and you don't have to worry about it. Now, each application also must have the IAM rights to write data to X-Ray. So, a very common question is, hey, my X-Ray application works on my computer when I test locally, but doesn't work on my EC2 machine, why? Well, the answer is probably because on your machine you're running the X-Ray daemon, but when you deploy to your EC2 instance, it's not running the X-Ray daemon, and therefore, X-Ray doesn't see your calls. Now, to make it really crystal clear here is an EC2 instance and you need to have your application code on top of it. And so, your code again needs to be modified to import the AWS X-Ray SDK, and then it will send its traces to the X-Ray daemon running the machine. So, as you can see, you also need to run the X-Ray daemon and that X-Ray daemon will send a batch every one second to AWS X-Ray. So, X-Ray does some magic. And so, to update this graph, how does that work? X-Ray will collect all the data from all the different services sending traces, and then, the service map will be computed magically from all the segments and the traces. And so, that's a really cool thing. X-ray is graphical, so even non-technical people can help troubleshoot. Talking about trouble shooting, what if X-Ray is not working on EC2? As I said, you need to ensure that the IAM role has the proper permission and you need to ensure that the EC2 instance is indeed running the X-Ray Daemon. If you want to run it on Lambda, it's a little bit different. For it, you need to ensure that the Lambda has an IAM execution role with proper policy. And I know we haven't seen what Lambda is, but it's just a question you may get. So, you need to make sure that Lambda has a proper IAM role that's expected and then you need to ensure that the X-Ray code is imported. And finally, that you have activated the active tracing Lambda option on X-Ray, but we'll see this in the Lambda section as well. So, that's it for the overview of X-Ray, a little taster. In the next lecture, we're just going to run the several apps on X-Ray to get a better feeling of how it works. So, see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS X-Ray - Hands On

So let's practice using X-Ray. And for this I'm gonna go into the CloudWatch console. And it turns out that the X-Ray console is now in the CloudWatch console. So you can see it on the left hand side under service map. Currently we see nothing, but we'll see something soon. That's because it's better to have X-Ray with the metrics your logs and your alarms all in one place. Okay, so if we wanted to have some data in X-Ray we need to set up a demo app but it turns out that, well, the demo app as per my trials and errors, doesn't work in AWS. So therefore I've created my own demo app that is a modification of what AWS has created. And we'll deploy this on CloudFormation. So you go to CloudFormation and you create a stack. And the stack we're going to use in here is the stack that's under the X-Ray folder called EB Javas Scorekeep X-Ray simplified. This is a simplified template from AWS. So we're going to upload a template file and choose the EB Javas Scorekeep X-Ray simplified. So the stack name is going to be called Scorekeep X-Ray. And then you scroll down, you leave everything as default except at the very bottom three things. So for subnet one, you're going to choose the first subnet. For subnet ID two, you choose the second subnet. And finally, for VPCID, you choose the VPC right here. And the reason we do so is that this is we indicate to the templates where we want to deploy our resources. So click on next, then click on next and then acknowledge and submit. And this is going to create a CloudFormation template for us. And if you have a look at it, this CloudFormation template actually deploys an ECS cluster. And then we're going to have a front-end API a front-end image, sorry, a backend API all using X-Ray so that we see data in the X-Ray folder and then it's going to be running on the T2 or T3 micro. Okay, so this is good. Now let's go in here and wait for this to be fully done. Okay, so my stack is now fully deployed and if I go into resources I can see all the things that have been created as part of this confirmation templates. So we can see, for example, an ECS execution role ASG a game table, which is DynamoDB and so on. So how do we use this web application. Well, you go to outputs, refresh this and then we have the loaded balancer. You are over here that you just open in your new page. And then you should have this kind of UI. So I'm going to leave the session as games. I'm going to leave this to random and click on create. Here we have to create a game name. So I'm going to create a Sample Game and then the rules of it is going to be Tic Tac Toe. And then click on create. And now we can view the traces recession but you click on this. This is going to take you to the old X-Ray console, which is right here. And as you can see there's a new X-Ray console, experience available. That is the one that I'm showing you right here. So for now, let's just keep on playing. So let's click on this game and click on play. And here we have a classic game of Tic Tac Toe. So you just click wherever you want. So here, here, here. And then, oh, you see there's a line. So you'll see in a second that X has won, so X wins. So yes, we have done this entire game and we could go back and play more games. What's going to happen is that as we play the games this is going to send traces into X-Ray. And so if I go into X-Ray right here and look at my service map, which is the first part. So I'm going to zoom out a little bit just for this ones. So this is my service map, and this shows the dependencies of all my components in AWS and how they relate towards the API calls that have been made. And as you can see, we have an ECS container right here. This is what's representing it. And then we also have a DynamoDB table. We have another DynamoDB table. So we have two of them. We have an SNS. And you see right now it's a bit orange is because this is an error and we'll have a look at it. We also have a session table we have a state table, an SNS topic, and another table. So we have so many DynamoDB tables and so on. And this is the service map. So you can imagine as you have many microservices and all of them making API calls to each other if they're all instrumented with X-Ray then you will start seeing the dependencies between all these services. And on top of it, in case there is an error this will be highlighted right here. So if we click on this, for example we can have a look at the latency. So we see the average latency and so on over time the number of requests over time, number of faults and the response time distribution if we want it to. And as we have a look at this, if I click on here as you can see here, it says error 100% to SNS. So it looks like that SNS is getting some errors. And so what I can do is that I can analyze these traces by clicking on view traces. So now we have these, this is the traces console and this is where we can start to query some traces so we can run a query and view what's happening. But currently we don't have any data. So instead I'm going to do is just run a query with nothing. And as you can see, we have 21 different traces. So everything looks good. And what's going to happen is that you can filter them by note. So figure out which ones are going to be important to you. So maybe you just wanna look at traces related to the ECS container or to this score, keep game table and so on. So you can start to build your query. As you can see, if I only want to look at score keep game then I can add to query. And this is going to populate my trace query right here. And I can run my query and instead of 21, I have 10 traces. And then on top of it, now half this, I can look at like the response graphs in terms of latency. So it looks like most of my requests are under 200 milliseconds but there has been one request at over 500 milliseconds. So again, it really depends on what you want to get out of it but this could be some good indications and help you look into, for example this one request right here that was slow. And we can have a look and understand. So if we look at the duration, this is probably this one. So if you click on it now you have details about a specific trace. And so this trace is going to show you the trace map just for that once. So as you can see, we have a little bit less information in here because this trace was using only the ECS container and four DynamoDB tables. And if you scroll down now you see the actual breakdown of the request based on the different events that happens. And so you can see that this post right here to this URL actually triggered a lot of API calls to DynamoDB. So first get item on score, keep game then get item on score clip states and so on. And you can see the latency, how long each take and so on. So this gives you some information around your data. And of course as you click on it, then you're going to get some segment details information to look whether or not you had errors, to look the resources, the annotations, if anything, and the metadata. So you can get a lot of information around what failed and what didn't fail. And of course, this is only relevant when there is a failure for analyzing the failures but this gives you really good latency information. And if you had CloudHSM logs enabled then you could also see the corresponding logs for that specific trace which makes X-Ray really, really, really powerful. So that's it. That's what I want you to remember for X-Ray. Now in the state of things, right now X-Ray does not have all the features from the previous console so we only have service map and traces. But if you're go in here in the X-Ray console as you can see, we have configurations such as sampling, encryption, and groups which are don't appear yet in this console. So for now I may use this console as well in the future videos. Just know that X-Ray and you're good to go. And finally, just to be clear, you need to delete the stack so that it doesn't leave it running. So you can just delete it, call the score, keep X-Ray delete the stack, and you're good to go. All right, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Overview of Amazon Quicksight

Let's spend a little bit of time talking about Amazon QuickSight. Even though QuickSight is more technically a data analysis tool, it is explicitly covered in the machine learning exam. So we're going to spend some time on this. It is an analytics and visualization tool. And analytics and visualization are things you need to know about for the test. So what is QuickSight? Well, its official description is that it's a fast, easy, cloud powered business analytics service. That sounds wonderful, but doesn't really tell you much now, does it? Fundamentally, it's just an application that lets you very quickly and easily create dashboards and graphs and charts and reports based off of whatever data you're storing in AWS or elsewhere. And it does this very quickly and at scale. Something that's a little bit different about QuickSight is that it's aimed more toward end users, toward business people. So it's not really aimed toward developers. Think of it more as an application that allows all the employees in an organization to build visualizations, perform ad hoc analysis, get business insights from the data, and do it from any device that they have a browser or mobile device at any time. So it's not something where you need to be a developer and deal with the AWS dashboard or APIs or command line or anything like that. It's more of a higher level application interface for visualizing data that is stored pretty much anywhere. And due to that nature, of course, it is a serverless application. You don't need to think about the underlying implementation. You're just a user of an application here for creating various charts and graphs. It can connect to many different data sources, both inside and outside of Amazon, so it can connect to redshift. Obviously, that's an obvious application of where you might want to visualize data in a data warehouse hosted by Amazon. You can also put it on top of Aurora or RDS, and we'll see that more generally, you can put it on pretty much any database. Athena. That's a very common use case as well. Say you have a data lake in S3. You want to stack Athena on top of that through glue maybe. And you can use QuickSight to hit Athena and visualize the data in that data lake. Also, EC2 hosted databases. You can just run your own database in and EC2, and as long as it talks to standard language, you can talk to it. A file based you can talk directly to S3 data in a data lake. You can also talk to Excel data. Data stored in comma separated value or tab separated value format, or any of a variety of log formats as well. Also, there's ways of preparing the data ahead of time. Before you analyze or visualize it. You can change some of the stuff before visualizing it. Like let's say you select a CSV file as a data set, and you want to change the column names to something a little bit more pretty. You can do stuff like that. Change the field names. You can add in calculated fields, uh, use SQL queries on top of it, change data types, whatever you need to do. It also can work on top of AWS IoT, analytics, internet of things and data preparation, like we said, allows some limited ETL so you can actually do a little bit of transformation in the process of using QuickSight too. How does it work under the hood? Something called spice that's sort of a forced acronym for super fast parallel in-memory calculation Engine. That's its underlying engine for accelerating these queries. So oftentimes you're using QuickSight on top of a massive data store or data warehouse or data lake. It's got to get that those visualizations that you want really quickly and spices how it does it. The tricks it uses includes columnar storage in memory and machine code generation, and it uses that to accelerate your interactive queries on very large databases. That in-memory calculation is limited to ten gigabytes of memory per user. And of course, it's highly available and durable. Like everything in AWS, it's also highly scalable, up to hundreds of thousands of users at once. Some things you might use QuickSight for. It's intended for interactive, ad hoc exploration and visualization of data, so they make it easy to create charts and graphs and explore your data visually. And the idea is that if it's easy to do so, you can do that interactively and try to dig in and explore and slice and dice your data on the fly to gain some insights out of it. You can also use it for creating dashboards and KPI reports, and we'll see that it has a new paginated report feature as well to make that even more robust. You can analyze and visualize data from logs stored in S3, the databases you may have on premise any of the standard AWS database sources like RDS, redshift, Athena, and S3. SaaS applications. You can tie it to Salesforce, and anything that talks JDBC or ODBC is fair game as well. Tying this more directly into machine learning, it does have a new feature called Machine Learning Insights has a couple of cool features. One is called ML Powered Anomaly Detection. Under the hood, that's using Amazon's Random Cut Forest algorithm that they love so much. So you can use that for things like trying to detect anomalies in your sales data. Anomalies, anomalies in latency on your website, whatever it might be. If you need to identify, um, anomalies that might exist in your data and strip them out. It also has an ML powered forecasting feature as well, which also uses random cut force in order to automatically get rid of the anomalies in your data in making that forecast. You can use that to make forecasts with seasonality taken into account and any trends that automatically exclude outliers and impute missing values automatically as well. And again, this is made for non-technical users so they can very quickly and easily just say, hey QuickSight, make a forecast based on this data. QuickSight through Machine Learning Insights, will then do all the dirty work of figuring out how to massage and prepare the data to give you the best forecast. There's also something called auto narratives and machine learning insights, and that allows you to build rich dashboards with embedded narratives to tell the story of your data in plain language. So that's a kind of a way to cheat and turn the AI on to creating your dashboards for you. And you can use the one that it creates for you or just build on top of it. Of course, it doesn't always get it right on the first try. So if you do want to customize what it comes up with, you can do that as well. Now, as far as direct machine learning capabilities in QuickSight go, this is it. So if the exam asks you about other machine learning features or metrics as part of QuickSight. They don't exist yet. It's a trick question. So remember that relatively new feature in QuickSight is called QuickSight Q. Well, this is one more machine learning thing, but it's it's an add on. So it is machine learning powered. And it answers business questions with natural language processing. So with QuickSight Q instead of trying to figure out what SQL queries to write or, you know, trying to figure out how to drag and drop what field into your dashboard and how to construct charts by hand. You can just say things like, what are the top selling items in Florida? And that's offered as an add on for given regions. It does cost more, as we'll talk about in a bit. However, it doesn't just work out of the box. As you can imagine, somebody has to tell QuickSight. Q in this particular example, what column represents sales data? Right? It can't just magically figure that out on its own. So. So first of all, there is personal training offered on how to use it. And it's required in order to use QuickSight. Q so they don't just unleash it on you and hope for the best. They do give you some personal training on how to massage your data and prepare your data, and how to use QuickSight Q to get the best results. So not quite as intuitive as you might hope. You have to set up topics associated with data sets to get QuickSight Q working. Obviously, you need to make sure your data sets and fields are NLP friendly. If you're a column for sales, data is called Q 73 255. Um, that's not going to give the algorithm any help on how to know that represents sales data. So you need to make sure that your fields and data sets are named, uh, in English language stuff or whatever language you're using to make it NLP friendly. You also need to explicitly tell it how to handle dates. That needs to be defined up front as well. That's QuickSight. Q uh, the takeaway here is that it's natural language processing business questions on top of QuickSight. Another new feature in, uh, late 2022 is QuickSight Paginated Reports. These are highly formatted, multi-page reports designed to be printed for management. So here's an example of it here on the right may span many pages and you can build this on top of existing QuickSight dashboards as well, so you can take your set of dashboards you made in QuickSight, put them all together and make them pretty, and print out a regular report for management. This way. What do you not want to use QuickSight for? Well, it used to be that you would not use it for highly formatted canned reports, but the introduction of paginated reports makes that no longer true. I'm calling this out, however, because sometimes the exam does not keep up to date with the latest changes as quickly as we would like. So if you're taking the exam in late 20, in early 2023, mid 2023, I don't know if they've taken paginated reports into account yet, so you might want to keep that in the back of your head. If you see a question specifically about highly formatted canned reports in QuickSight. Used to be you could not do that, but now you can ETL it is not designed for ETL. Like we said, there are some limited ETL capabilities, but for doing, you know, hardcore ETL operations, you want to use glue for that. That's what glue is for. QuickSight can do some transformations, but really you want to use glue for the heavy lifting there. Quick note about security it offers MFA on your account. Obviously, like pretty much everything. VPC connectivity is possible. So you can add Amazon's QuickSight IP address range to your database instances. Security group rules to enable traffic flow into your VPC and database instances. Row level security. LRS is offered to enable QuickSight dataset owners to control access to data at row granularity, based on permissions associated with the user interacting with the data. So with LRS, QuickSight users only need to manage a single set of data and apply appropriate row level data set rules to it. Also, a relatively new feature in the enterprise edition of QuickSight is column level security as well. So in the enterprise edition only, you can also restrict users to specific fields of your data and not just specific rows. Private VPC access in QuickSight is also possible. That's made possible by the Elastic Network Interface or Eni, for secure private communication with data sources in a VPC. It also allows you to use AWS Direct Connect to create a secure private link with your on premises resources. User management. There's a few ways of handling that as well. Like we said, it's kind of an application that people use. So it's a website, basically a web app. And you need to control how people access that and have permission to view the underlying data within QuickSight. Also because you get charged per user. So you don't just want the whole world hitting your dashboards. That could get really expensive really quickly because you are charged by the user. Users are defined through IAM, like most things in AWS or through an email signup process you can do. So you could have QuickSight email the user to be part of QuickSight domain, and then you can decide to delete the user if you want to. And what to do with the orphaned resources when that happens in the end. There's also Saml based single sign on capabilities as well. Again, built on top of IAM and in the enterprise edition only. There's also integration with Active Directory possible as well. And everything has multifactor authentication of course, because that's just standard these days.

---

### Lecture: Types of Visualizations, and When to Use Them

Let's dive a little more deeply into what QuickSight visualizations look like. They do love on the exam questions like given this data set and what you want to get out of it, what kind of visualization would be most appropriate. So let's see what they look like. QuickSight dashboards. We threw this out a few times in the previous lecture. Here's here's what one actually looks like. It's just a snapshot of an analysis. It's read only. So once you make it, it can only be read. It's meant for other people to look at and get a snapshot of how things are. Once it's created, you can share that dashboard with other users who have access to QuickSight, but they can't edit or change the filters. So it's just a nice way of assembling a bunch of views of your key business data for other people to consume. There are different visual types offered within QuickSight. Quite a few actually. One is autograph that just allows you to select the most appropriate visualizations based on the properties of the data, rather than you selecting one, and the visualization types are chosen to best reveal the data and the relationships in an effective way. Sometimes it gets it right. Sometimes you want to build on top of it. Some tools for comparison in Distribution is a bar chart. So histograms things like that, that's a good choice for a bar chart. If you're looking for changes over time that's what a line graph is for. So if you want to trend over time, you need to think about line graphs and area line graphs or maybe area line charts. If you're looking to show correlation, that's where scatter plots come in. So a scatter plot will give you a specific plot of 2D data, so you can see the raw data there and infer from it what you will. That can be useful for looking at correlation, because if those scatter plot points tend to fall in sort of around a line or some sort of a pattern, that can tell you there's a correlation between the two axes there. Right. Heat maps are also there for color coding. 2D data. So for example, if you wanted to plot restaurants in the x axis and food reviewers on Y, you could have every cell containing a rating from each reviewer for each restaurant. And that in turn could be color coded based on how good the rating is. So if an individual restaurant tends to get good reviews across all the reviewers, it will show up as a hot colored column in the heat map. So we'll look at an example of that a little bit later on to make that more intuitive for aggregation, we have pie graphs and tree maps, tree maps you might not be so familiar with. They display hierarchical data with nested rectangles. Again, we'll see an example of that shortly. For tabular data, we have pivot tables that can be used for summarizing the data and measuring values. For the intersection of two dimensions you can apply statistical functions to that. So think of pivot tables. If you need to deal with multi-dimensional data and apply statistical functions to it. There used to be a feature called stories as well, but they deprecated that it's no longer a thing. Some more newer visual types that they've introduced in recent years. So we have KPIs. We have geospatial charts or just a fancy name for maps with overlays on them like this one to the right here, donut charts and gauge charts. Also word clouds. And rather than spend a lot of time talking about these now, I'll show you examples in a bit. Let's dive into bar charts. So again these are used for comparison and distribution. So if you need to look at a distribution of data or compare data over different periods. A bar chart is what you want. They can be vertical. They can be horizontal, as seen in both of these examples. If you know anything about data analysis, I'm sure you know about bar charts. I'm not going to go into a whole lot of depth here. Line charts also should be familiar to you. I would hope they are for visualizing changes over time. So if you see a question that asks what kind of a visualization would you use to view changes or trends over time? Good chance. The answer is a line chart. You can also have area line charts or stacked area line charts like the one you're seeing to the right here as well. If you want to visualize how different components of something add up to a larger trend as well. Scatter plots. Here's an example again useful for showing correlation. So a scatter plot. We're showing the actual raw data points here. In this example, for the eruption duration and the waiting time between eruptions from a geyser called Old Faithful in Yellowstone National Park in America. And you can see here just by eyeballing it, there are these two little clusters. And, you know, that tells you something about the nature of the data. There's also what looks like sort of a linear relationship there going on. So if you want to see how that waiting time between eruptions and the length of the eruption relates, a scatter plot can be a good way to start understanding what that correlation is. We can say, looking at this scatter plot, that yeah, the more time there is between eruptions, the longer that eruption is likely to last. Which makes sense, right? You know, things kind of build up over time and it has to release all that pent up pressure. Here's an example of a heat map. Specifically, this is a DNA microarray data reflecting gene expression values in several conditions. So again you have two dimensional data where every cell of that 2D grid is further enhanced with a color that represents the value of that cell. Right. So this allows you to visualize what's, you know, quote unquote, cold or hot based on low or high values within that grid. Again, useful for correlation pie charts. I think you all know what a pie chart is, right? So this specific example here is showing populations of English native speakers lifted this from Wikipedia. And you can see that most of them are in the US followed by the UK, followed by Canada. Then we have Australia and everything else bundled up into that other slice there. So if you're looking for aggregation, a pie chart might be something to look at. Close relative is donut charts. These are more specifically for comparing values for items in a dimension. So the best chart best use for this type of chart is for showing a percentage of a total amount. Every wedge in a donut chart represents one value in a dimension. The size of the wedge represents the proportion of the value for the selected measure that the item represents compared to the whole for the dimension. So donut charts are best when precision isn't important and there are few items in the dimension. This particular example here. Sum of visits by planet. You know how many robotic space probes have we sent to each planet here? I don't think Uranus has actually been visited that much, so I'm not sure this is real data, but you get the idea. Gage charts also a relatively new feature. Just what it sounds like. It's visualizing it in the style of a gage like on your dashboard in your car. It's purpose is to display how much of there is of the thing you're measuring, like fuel in a tank, or bandwidth usage, or something like that. Comparing values in a measure. More specifically, tree maps might not have seen these before. It's for hierarchical aggregation, so a relative of pie charts, but showing hierarchy within each slice if you will. In this rectangular format. So so for example that brown square in the upper top there seems to represent metals. Right. Like metallic exports or something. Right. And within that we can see the breakdown of specific types of metallic exports. So when you have this hierarchy of information that you want to show or where you're trying to show aggregation hierarchically, a tree map might be the tool for that. Pivot tables if you've if you're an Excel pro you know a pivot tables are. The idea here is you start with tabular data, and you want to aggregate that data in arbitrary ways in a tabular format. So in this for example, you could have raw sales data at the top and pivot on region and ship date to view sales by region over time. So pivot tables are just ways to aggregate tabular data in arbitrary ways. Another relatively new feature are KPIs. These are used for comparing key values to their target values. Pretty straightforward right. So it's just saying hey here's some metric I care about. Here's what it is. Here's where it is relative to where we want it to be. That's the KPI. And then we have geospatial charts. Just what it sounds like a map basically with data overlaid on top of it. Generally, the size of these circles represent the amount in that specific location, right? So we have some of population by state here where every state has a circle over it. The size of that circle represents the population of that state. Pretty straightforward. But if you need to visualize data based on geospatial information, like where it is visually, geographically, geospatial chart is obviously the choice for that. And we finally have word clouds. They show the frequency of words or phrases in a data set. So if you have a book or something or some corpus of text data, a word cloud will show you how frequently different words or phrases appear within that text, and the size of each word or phrase represents how often it appears within your data. So, for example, we could have a data set of midweek destinations, and we could be mining the text in that destination field and making a word cloud out of it. And you can see here that visually, Atlanta, Georgia is the top one. Houston, Texas. Dallas, Fort Worth, Chicago all pretty much up there. Pretty high as well. Probably no coincidence that these are all airport hubs, but anyway, I'm not going to get into that too much. More often, though, I'll see this used in things like, um, one example I've used is looking at the entire works of William Shakespeare and looking at what words and phrases are used most commonly within it. That's something I've used in my other courses. So word clouds, one last visualization type available to you in QuickSight. So go back and review these again. You know, you should be prepared for questions that say, hey, given this type of analysis, this type of data, what visualization would make sense? And it's good to know what that menu is and what they're meant to do.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudTrail

Now let's talk about CloudTrail. So CloudTrail is a way to get governance compliance and audit for your AWS Accounts. And CloudTrail is enabled by default. This will allow you to get a history of all the events and API Calls made within your AWS Accounts, by the console by the SDK, the CLI other services on AWS and all these logs will be appearing in CloudTrail. Now, what you can do is that you can also put these logs from CloudTrail into CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3. And you can create a trail to be applied to all regions or a single region, if you wanted to accumulate all these history of events accumulated across all regions into one specific, for example, S3 buckets. And when we use CloudTrail, for example, we'll say someone went ahead and deleted something in AWS. For example, say that an EC2 instance was being terminated and you wanna figure out who did it? Well, the answer is to look into CloudTrail because CloudTrail will have that API Call in it and will be able to get to the bottom of it and understand who did what and when. So to summarize CloudTrail is in the middle and the actions of the SDK, the CLI, or the console or even IAM Users and IAM Roles or other services will be in the CloudTrail console. We can look in it to inspect and audit what happened. And if you want to have all the events for more than 90 days, then we can send them into CloudWatch Logs or we can send them into an S3 buckets. So let me dive a little bit deeper for CloudTrail. So we have three kinds of events that you can see in CloudTrail. The first one is called the Management Events and these represents operations that are performed on resources in your AWS Accounts. For example, whenever someone configures security, they will use the API Call called IAM AttachRolePolicy. And this will appear in CloudTrail. If you create a subnet, this will appear as well. If you set up logging, this will appear by default. Anything that modifies your resources or your iOS accounts will appear in CloudTrail. And by default, trails are configured to log Management Events no matter what. You can separate two kind of Management Events. You have the Read Events that don't modify resources. For example, someone is listing all the users in IAM or listing all the EC2 instances in EC2, these kind of things. You can separate them from Write Events that may modify resources. For example, someone deletes or tries to delete a DynamoDB table. And obviously the Write Events have probably a lot more importance because they can wreck damages into your AWS infrastructure. Whereas the Read Events is just to get information which are still very important, but maybe less destructive. Then you have Data Events. So they're separate and by default Data Events as are not logged because they're high volume operations. So what are Data Events? Well, you have Amazon S3 object level activity for example, GetObject, DeleteObject, PutObject. And as you can see, these can be happening a lot on an S3 bucket. And so this is why they're not logged by default and you have the option to separate again Read and Write Events. So a Read Event will be a GetObject whereas a Right Event would be a DeleteObject or a PutObject. Another kind of event you can have in a CloudTrail are AWS Lambda function execution activities. So whenever someone uses the Invoke API so you can get insights about how many times your Lambda functions are being evoked. And again, this could be really high volumes, if your Lambda functions are executed a lot. And the third kind of events in CloudTrail are called CloudTrail Insights Events. And so I will talk to you about CloudTrail Insights in a bit more details in the next slide. So now let's talk about CloudTrail Insights. So when we have so many Management Events across all types of services and so many APIs happening very quickly in your accounts, it can be quite difficult to understand what looks odd, what looks unusual and what doesn't. And so this is where CloudTrail Insights comes in. So with CloudTrail Insights and you have to enable it and you have to pay for it, it will analyze your events and try to detect unusual activity in your accounts. For example, in accurate resource provisioning, hitting service limits, burst of AWS IAM actions, gaps in periodic maintenance activity. So the way it works is that CloudTrail will analyze what normal management activities look like to create the baseline and then it will continuously analyze anything that is the right type of event. So whenever something is changed or try to be changed to detect unusual patterns. So very simply the Management Events are going to be continuously analyzed by CloudTrail Insights which will generate Insights Event in case something is detected. And so these anomalies, so these Insight Events will appear in the CloudTrail console. They will also be sent to Amazon industry if you want to, and an EventBridge Event. So in CloudWatch event is going to be generated in case you need to automate on top of these CloudTrail Insights, for example, to send an email. So this is the idea behind CloudTrail Insights. Finally, let's talk about CloudTrail Event Retention. So events by default are stored for 90 days in CloudTrail and then afterwards they're deleted, but sometimes you may want to have events for longer in case you want to go back to something that happened maybe a year ago for audited purposes. And so to keep events beyond this period, what you have to do is that you have to log them to S3. So send them to S3, and then you would use Athena to analyze them. So very simply all your Management Events, your Data Events and your Insights Events are going to go into CloudTrail for 90 days, retention period. And then you would log those into your S3 buckets for long-term retention. And when you're ready to analyze them, you would use the Athena service, which is a serverless service to query data in S3 to find the events Okay I hope you like this lecture, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon CloudTrail - Hands On

So let's have a look at CloudTrail. And CloudTrail is a service to intercept any API calls or user activity within your accounts. And so here on here on the left hand side panel, we can have a look at the event history and this is the event history for the last 90 days of management events. So you can see all the API calls that are being made over time in this account. So it doesn't have to be very interesting, okay, but all of them will be here. So what I wanna do for example, is that I want to look in my EC2 console, and I created a demo instance. And what I'm going to do is that I'm going to terminate this instance. So I do right click, terminate, and now the instance is being terminated. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to check whether or not this event happens and appears within CloudTrail. So I'm going to wait about five minutes and get back to you. And so I just refreshed my pages, and as you can see, I ran the terminate instances, API call. And we can see what's the event source. So it's EC2 from where it was done, the access key that was used, the region that was used, and so on. And we can get the whole event right here. So that's the full power of CloudTrail is that we can see all the events really happening from within CloudTrail directly in this UI. And this is a short introduction at the practitioner level, but this is enough for you to get started and to answer questions at the exam. So that's it. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Config

Okay, let's have a look at AWS Config. So Config is a service that allows you to get auditing and record compliance of your resources in AWS, based on some rules that you're going to set, you can also record Configuration and their changes over time to quickly be able to roll back and to figure out what happened in your infrastructure if you need to. So some questions that can be solved by Config are, is there an unrestricted SSH access to my security groups? Or do my buckets have anybody public access? Or is there an ALB configuration that has changed over time? Then based on these rules being compliant or not, you can receive alerts or SNS notifications for any changes. Config is a per region service, so you need to configure it for all the regions if you need to, and you can aggregate the data across regions and accounts to centralize it into one place, you can also can store the configuration of all your resources into Amazon history to be later analyzed, for example, by serverless query engine, such as Athena. So what types of rules go into Config? Well, you can have AWS managed config rules, and there are over 75 rules that you can use, or you can create your own config rules. In this case, you need to define that rule yourself. We're using a Lambda function. For example, you can evaluate if each EBS disk is going to be of type gp2 or if each two instance in your development accounts is of type t2.micro. Some rules can be evaluated or triggered whenever a configuration is going to change. So whenever, for example, you have a new configuration of your EBS disc, please evaluate the type of your EBS disk, or you can also have the rule to be evaluated at regular time intervals. For example, every two hours, please make sure that all my EBS discs are of type gp2. Now, Config Rules are just for compliance. They do not prevent actions from happening. This is not a denied action on anything. It doesn't replace security mechanisms such as IAM. Okay, but what it does give you is a overview of your configuration and the compliance of your resources. Now there's no future for config. It can be quite expensive very quickly. You're going to pay 0.003 cents per configuration, item recorded per region and 0.001 cents per config rule evaluation per region. Now for the company resource, you're going to be able to view the compliance of a resource over time. For example, the security group has been non-compliance. Then you can view the config resource configuration over time, okay? You can see when the change and who changed it and so on, and you can link it to CloudTrail to view the API calls made for that resource. So you can get a full picture of everything that's happening. Now, although you cannot deny any action from happening from within the config, you can do remediations of your non-compliant resources using an SSM Automation Documents. So the idea is, for example, you are monitoring whether or not your IAM access keys have expired. For example, they are older than 90 days. In which case you want to mark them as non-compliant. So this will not prevent them from not being compliant, but you can trigger whenever a resource is not compliant, a remediation action. For example, there's an SSM document named RevokeUnusedIAMUserCredentials, okay. Maybe you want to use this one and then is going to be applied to whatever resource you have, okay? And in this instance, it's going to deactivate your IAM access keys. So the idea is that's either using either using AWS-Managed Documents or creating your own automation documents, you can have remediations of your non-compliant resources, okay? And if you want it to and go all the way through with the scripting, you could create a document that will invoke a Lambda function and you're free to do whatever you want there. Finally, your remediation may have retries. So in case the resource is still non-compliance after an auto remediation, it may retry for example, up to five times. So lastly, what about notifications? Well, we can use if EventBridge to trigger notifications, whenever our resources are not compliant. So, for example, we monitor our security group, it becomes not compliance. Then we can trigger an event in EventBridge, and then pass it on to whatever resource you wants. Or you can also pass on all the changes and all the compliance that notifications of your resources to SNS from Config. So one configuration item, and then if you want it to just filter for only for some events, you could use an SNS filtering to have a filtered SNS topic, and then you can send it these notifications, for example, to an admin email or to a slack channel and so on to get all these notifications in one place. So that's it for a Config. I hope you liked it, and it will see you in the next lecture for some hands-on.

---

### Lecture: AWS Config - Hands On

So let's go into the config service and start to configure it. So we are in it and I'm going to click on get started to start recording some settings. So we're going to record all the resources supported in this region, but if you wanted to, you can record only specific resource types. In which case you can find resource categories and then resource types on the right hand side. But because I want to show you all the resources I can record, I'm going to click on this. And on top of it, you can include global resources, such as IAM users, group roles and customer managed policies. Just be aware that again, config is not a part of the feature here, so the more resources you record, the more money you going to pay. And so I'm doing this to show you everything to you, but if you don't want to pay any money from this course, please do not follow on with this hands-on. Okay, so we're going to record our resources. We're going to include global resources and then to record all the resource configuration, we need to create a config service linked role. So we're going to click on that. Then all this information is going to be delivered into an Amazon S3 bucket. So once you create a bucket, and the bucket name is already entered for me, so that's perfect. And then we can have a prefix if you wanted to. And then finally, this is where the data is going to be stored. And in terms of notification, we can stream all the configuration changes and notifications into an Amazon SNS topic if we wanted to, and again, remember this is for everything into one topic. But I don't wanna do this, so I will leave this unticked. I click on next and next we find some AWS Managed Rules. So we have a lot, as you can see, and I want to define them later, so I'm going to skip that part, but you can have a look at them if you wanted to. So click on next, and we can review the configuration. So yes, we want to record all resources, including global resources. And we're going to deliver this into an S3 bucket and currently we haven't defined any role. So let's click on confirm. Now the role is being created, the bucket is created and then config is going to be started. Now it's going to take a bit of time for config to have a look at everything within your account and look at the configuration. So I'm going to post the video until this is done. Okay, so my resources are still being discovered, but I can go on the left hand side to resources, and actually we will see that some resources have already been discovered in my account as you can see. Some route tables, sub-net, VPC and so on, have been discovered. So what I can do is that I can look at resource type and I can look for example, for EC2 security groups and find that yes, my security groups are here. And currently, they do not have a compliance status because we haven't defined any kind of rule on top of them. So let's have a look for example, at one of these EC2 security group. And from within the group, we can have a look at the rules applied, so currently none. And we could look at the configuration of the security group itself, okay? We can also look at the resource timeline. And the resource timeline will give you all the events related to that resource. So there's a configuration change, which is the initial right here. There's some CloudTrail events also that were related to the security group. For example, authorizeSecurityGroupingress rules, CreateLaunchConfiguration and CreateSecurityGroup, this kinda thing. And we can go to CloudTrail to find these events. So what I want to do is to figure out whether or not my security groups are compliant or not. And so for this, we're gonna go into rules. And rules is going to be able to give us the option to add a rule, and we can either add an AWS managed rule or create our own custom rule with a lambda function. So to keep it simple, I'm going to add an AWS managed rule and let's have a look at rules that are accessible to us. So one that I like is for example, approved-amis-by-id. So this is to check whether running instances are in your account using the specified AMIs. So if I click on it, for example, and click on next, which is not related to security groups, but I just wanna show you one rule. So this one will check whether or not your EC2 running instances, will be using the specified AMIs. And so you can trigger this based on whenever a resource that's changed. And then you can also specify all the EC2 instances in here, and we have to specify a parameter for that rule, which is the list of all the AMI IDs are approved within their account and this is going to be used by the rules and inputs to figure out whether or not EC2 instance is compliant. Because we do not have many EC2 instances yet, we're not going to use that rule. So instead we're going to use a managed rule, but this time for SSH. And this is going to be applied to our security groups. So we want to make sure that we're not allowing any incoming SSH traffic from anywhere. So we click on next, this is called the restricted SSH and the trigger is going to be on our resource whenever the configuration changes, okay? But as we can see, if we define a different kind of rule, we could have it to be run periodically as well. So, okay, we're once. Whenever our security group resource will change, please evaluate that rule. This is applying only to AWS EC2 security groups, and we have no parameters for that row. Click on next and click on add rule. And now we have defined this first rule, so let's have a look. So currently it's not evaluated and we don't have any remediation. So let's wait a little bit until this is done. So I just refreshed my page and as you can see, an evaluation was done automatically. And if we look at this rule, we have seven security groups, no six security groups right here, which are not compliant. So if we go into our resources on the left hand side, and we're going to filter again by EC2 security group and have a look at all our resources. As we can see, some of them are compliant and some of them are not compliant. So if we look at the compliant and the non compliant one let's see the difference. So this one is compliant, okay? And a rule was applied to it as we can see it says compliant. So if I go and manage a resource and look at the inbound rules right here, as we can see, we only have one inbound rule, which doesn't have a port, so there's no port 22 in here. So this is why this is working. But if I look at a non-compliant resource, for example, this launch-wizard-3 I believe it was not compliant, okay? And you click on manage resource, we are taken again straight into the console for security groups. And if you look at the inbound rule, as we can see, port 22 on IPv4 from anywhere is being open. So this is a big problem. So what I can do instead is delete this rule right here. And if I delete this rule, this will retrigger an evaluation of my resource, which should make it compliant again. So let's delete it and save my rules. So then security group has been modified, and so let me close this. So this is my non-compliant security group, and I can go into resource timeline to have a look. And so within the resource timeline, as we can see the configuration change happens, and then the rule was run and it was not compliant. Now I did change yet again, the configuration, so we're going to have to wait a little bit of time for the configuration change to happen right here, which should trigger a rule compliance and then hopefully now a resource will be compliant. So let me pause a little bit and get back to you. So I have just refreshed my page, and as we can see in here on July 12th, we have after the rule compliance, a CloudTrail event that happened because I did revoke a security group ingress rule because I deleted an ingress rule, that's true. Then it recorded as well, a configuration change saying hey, this rule that had the port 22 in it got deleted so from and to is empty because it got deleted. And then config, they run my rule again, named restricted SSH. And now my resource is compliant. And so that means that yes, I have fixed the compliance of my resource. So I can go back into here and we can have a look at another security group, for example, this one. And under the rule here, you can do action and then manage remediation. So this is to remediate this for this rule, so if you look at this rule, we have manage remediation and we can have manual remediation or automatic remediation. In which case, you can specify your number of retries and a number of seconds for the retries to happen, okay? So we can select a manual remediation for example, and then you need to choose a remediation action. So these are SSM automation documents that we can select. So these are defined by AWS, but we can also create our own. And for example, well, we could delete a snapshot or delete an image if it's not compliant to whatever we wanted. So it's really up to you to define the action you want. So for example, you could say, hey attach EBS volume and here's the right limit based on the non compliant resources. The resource ID parameters, if you need them to be given to the remediation and so on. Now this doesn't make any sense, this remediation action, right? We need to define a remediation action that makes sense for our rule, but as you can see, we can set up automatic or manual remediation and configure it and so on, and also best in some parameters around the document itself. So that's it for config, I hope you liked it. And then aggregators is to integrate across multiple accounts, okay? And then under settings, you can have a look at the settings we defined from before, including, for example, sending all the data into an SNS topic. Or you can set up Amazon CloudWatch Event rules, okay? From the CloudWatch consoles or from the Events rules console to intercept only specific non-compliant events for some specific rules. So that's it for this section, I hope you liked it, And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: CloudWatch vs. CloudTrail vs. Config

So one very popular exam question is to make the distinction between CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and Config. Now thankfully, thanks to the hands-on, hopefully you know exactly what are the differences are. It's pretty obvious in my opinion, but it's never too bad to go through an example and see them. So CloudWatch is for performance metrics, metrics, CPU, network, and to create dashboards. You can also get events and alerts, and finally, we have a log aggregation and analysis tool if we wanted to. So CloudWatch, I think we're all pretty familiar with it, this already. Now, CloudTrail could be new to you, but basically it's to record API calls made within your account by everyone and everything, and you can define some trails for specific resources, so you can get more information on EC2 only, and it's a global service. Now finally, Config is to record configuration changes and to evaluate resources configuration against compliance rules. Finally, you're going to get a timeline of changes and compliance with its nice UI. So, I think they're a very distinctive service I don't think there's any confusion, but let's go through an Elastic Load Balancer to see how each of these service can help you understand what is happening to your ELB. So CloudWatch can monitor the number of incoming connections, can visualize number of error codes as a percentage over time, and maybe we can have a dashboard to get an idea of the load balancer performance, maybe we can have a, even make it a global dashboard if you have multiple load balancers for a global application. Now, Config, why would we use Config on the ELB? Well, maybe you wanna track the security group rules for the load balancer, making sure no-one does anything fishy or changes anything, maybe you want to change also a track that configuration changes for the load balancer itself, to see if anyone modifies the SSL certificate, or et cetera, et cetera. We also maybe have a rule to say, oh there's always should be an SSL certificate assigned to the load balancer, and maybe we should never allow non-encrypted traffic into the load balancer, that could be two different compliance rules that you put into Config. Finally, CloudTrail will be to track who made any changes to the load balancer with API calls. So, in case someone changes the security group rules or someone changes the SSL certificate, or removes it, or whatever, then CloudTrail will be how we know who made these changes. So all these tools are complementary when you think about it and when you understand that, how they're used for a load balancer, which I think is a great example, then you are going to rock any questions asked for you at the exam. So I hope that makes sense, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Budgets

You would use AWS Budgets if you wanted to create a budget based on actual charges or future estimated charges and send alarms whenever your cost will exceed your budgets. So you have four types of budgets you can set in the budget console. You can use usage, cost, reservation and savings plan, and we'll see them in a second. In case of signing a budget for a reserve instance, you can track utilization of your reserve instances overall and it supports RIs for different services such as EC2, ElastiCache, RDS, and Redshift. You can set up to five notifications per budgets and you can filter your budget by many different options such as service, linked account, tag, purchase options, and so on. So that means that you get a lot of options, actually the same as Cost Explorer, and so that makes budgets something that is going to be a lot more granular, a lot more flexible when it comes to tracking your cost and setting up alarms than, for example, your billing alarms. So the first two budgets are going to be free and then you're going to pay 2 cents per day per budget. So now let's go have a look in the console to see how budgets work.

---

### Lecture: AWS Budgets - Hands On

So let's use AWS Budgets. So in the Billing Console, on the left-hand side, you have your budgets, and we're going to go ahead and create a budget. So now you have a simplified view for budget setup and you can use a template, and some of them, for example, is zero spend budget to notify you once you exceed the AWS Free Tier limits. You have the monthly cost budget to create a budget that notifies you when you approach or exceed a specified budget. And then you have a Daily Savings Plan coverage budget, which is to create a coverage budget for your savings plan that notifies you if you fall below the defined targets of your savings plan. So these are for templates and they're very simple to define and then you go ahead and create template, but you don't have all the options of budgets. So let's go into Customize and advanced section. And here we have all the different kinds of budget. So we have cost budget, usage budget, savings plan budget, and reservation budget. So if you go for cost budget in here, we're going to get an idea of all the cost by month. And this is one of my real accounts, so you can see some actual cost in there. So we're going to enter a budget name. So this is a DemoBudget. And then you look at the period for the budget. Is it daily, monthly, quarterly, annually? We can keep it monthly. And is it a recurring budget, or an expiring budget that expires at the end of the month? So we'll have it as recurring budget. And we'll say for example that it's a fixed budgeted method and I enter $30 of budgeted amount per month. So it seems like some of my month, I was actually above my $30 budget, and some of the other month, I was underneath. So this is good for you to visualize where your budget threshold is and where your actual costs are. You can also filter the budget scope. So right now, it's on all AWS services. We can filter using specific AWS cost dimension. For example, we can look at services and we say, okay, please only look at the EC2 instances, and apply this filter. So here we see that for some months, I've had EC2 instances' cost, and for others, zero. So we can literally filter by services. Would it be EC2 instances or another service? For example, you could have KMS if you're interested. So Key Management Service. And again, in Cost Explorer, this will reflect the filter on the right-hand side. But you can go even more granular and actually have more dimensions, such as the region, the instance type, the usage type, the tags, the availability zones, and so on. So you have lots of different options for your filters. Okay, so let's have region for EU as one, and let's apply this filter. Okay, next we have different options. So do you want the unblended costs or the amortized or blended cost, as well as the charge types? Do you want to see all of them or also refunds and credits? Then it's a go Next. So then we have the budgeted amounts and we can create budget alerts. And this is to define when you want to get alerted based on your budget. And for example, you can say, when you reach 80% of your budgeted amounts on actual value, then trigger it. And here I would probably get a trigger this month based on this. And we can have email recipients for it. So stephane@example.com would be a recipient. Also, Amazon SNS alerts if you want to send it into an SNS topic or Amazon Chatbots if you wanted to send it to Amazon Chime or Slack chat rooms of your choices through the chatbots. And you could have alerts for actual amounts but also you could have alerts for 80% of budgeted amounts of the forecast. So when it feels like you are on track to reach 80% of your budgeted amount, you will also get an alert, which is nice, because you would get the alert beforehand and so on. So these are different alerts you can set. And again, I will have a recipient for it. Perfect. Let's click on Next, and Next. And here we review everything. So we can actually attach actions into our budgets. So here on step four, you can do edits and we can add an action. So whenever an alert is being triggered, what happens? So if I reach 80% of my actual costs, then we can add an action and this action will require IAM permissions to run. So for this, we can manually create an IAM role, which will allow budgets to run the specified actions. So let's create a role, and the role is for an AWS service and that service is going to be Budgets. And this will allow budgets to create and manage AWS resources on our behalf. Let's click on Next. And then for permission policies, I will have it here. And so we have Budget Actions with AWS Resource Access. So I'm just going to add them both just in case and click on Next. So AWSBudgetActionsRole is going to be the name of my role and we'll create this role. So my role is now created, and so back in here, I can refresh this, select an IAM role, and look for the AWSBudgetActionsRole. And now that the role is selected, which action do we want to apply? So if we reach the budget threshold, then do we want to attach an IAM policy to users, groups, or roles to restrict what they can do so that they cannot, for example, launch anymore EC2 instances? Or do you want to attach a Service Control Policy to the organization roots or a specific OU to guardrails what an entire organization or a OU can do? Or do you want to automatically stop EC2 instances or RDS instances because they may be sources of a lot of cost. So we can stop EC2 or stop RDS in a specified region. So this is the kind of action that can be run out of the AWS Budgets Console. So for now, I'm not going to have any action. Let's click on Next and create this budget, but at least we've seen all the options. So now in this console, we'll see the budget itself, the amount, the forecast, and nice graphs about where we are versus budgeted, or where we are versus forecasted. Okay, so let's look at the other budgets. So let's look at the customized advanced budget. And here we have usage budgets. So we can have a look at specific usages. So if I scroll down, I have a look at usage type group or usage type. So we can look for example at the Data Transfer Inter AZ and have a budget on it. So this is the same options. Then you can create a budget again and this time it's going to be a Savings Plans budget. So we can track against our specified savings plan. So SavingsPlanDemo, and here we can track either within the utilization of savings plan to make sure that we are utilizing all of it, or the coverage to make sure that our instance usage is covered by the savings plan for whatever you want. And then you can scope it to specific services as well or filter by dimensions. And finally, we have the reservation budgets and this is in case you have reservations. So reservations, which I don't have right now. So on this dropdown here for Service, nothing will be found. But we can track, again, a budget against the utilization of reservations or the coverage of reservations. But for this, you need to have reserved instances. So that's it. We've seen all the options for budgets. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Cost Explorer

So a small service that can come up in the exam is a billing service called Cost Explorer, which is used to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS cost and usage over time. It allows you to create custom reports that analyze your cost and usage data. And so with this, you get dashboards, and diagrams, and so on. And so you can analyze your data at a high level, for example, total cost and usage across all accounts, but you can also go down to get it monthly, hourly, or at the resource level granularity. And then thanks to Cost Explorer, you can do some cost savings because it allows you to choose an optimal savings plan to lower the prices on your bill. You can forecast usage as well up to 18 months based on previous usage, which can be helpful for cost planning. So if we look at Cost Explorer, here's an example. We get monthly cost by AWS service. In this example, we can see, for example, that some instances based on instance type can be more expensive than others, and so we can start optimizing our costs, asking ourselves the question, "Are these instances correctly used? Are they maximally used? Are they the right size?" These kind of things. Then we can get also hourly and resource level. So in this example, we get to, again, some EC2 instance resource level information, and we get the cost over time, so we can see what happens every single hour to get a better breakdown and understanding of our bill. This is also to find, as I said, a savings plan. So savings plan is an alternative to reserved instances, we have seen this. And so thanks to Cost Explorer, we get this little popup that will come up and it will tell us what kind of savings plan we can have based on our usage, and it will give us some recommendation, and give us some estimated monthly spend, and so on. So this is quite handy. Finally, we can forecast usage. So based on previous costs that we had in the past, we can get some forecasts and some confidence of the forecast around how much we're expected to pay for our bill based on our previous usage, and that could be quite helpful. So these kind of use cases can come up in the exam, and this is probably the only billing service that AWS will ask you in the exam. So that's it, I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Trusted Advisor

So now, let's talk about AWS Trusted Advisor. So you don't need to install anything. It's a service that gives you a high level account assessment on your account. It's going to check for a few things and advise you on them. So the checks can be, for example, do you have EBS Public Snapshots? Or do you have RDS Public Snapshots? Or are you using the root accounts for your accounts? So all these things are checked by Trusted Advisor and they are grouped in six categories. We have cost optimization, performance, security, fault tolerance, service limits, and operational excellence. So you have what's called the three sets of checks, the core sets of checks, and then you have the full set of checks. And to have access to the full set of checks, you need to have a business or an enterprise support plan. On top of it, if you do switch on the business and enterprise support plan, then you get programmatic access to Trusted Advisor through the AWS Support API. So I think it's best for you to see what Trusted Advisor is made of to really understand it. So here, I am in Trusted Advisor. And as you can see, you have recommendations. So zero actions are recommended, but two investigations are recommended for me, and then there are some checks on excluded items or not. But as we can see, we have two on security that must be looked at. So it turns out that one of my bucket is actually allowing a global access. So I need to verify it and make sure it's correct. And as you can see, 29 of my 60 security group rules allow unrestricted access to a specific port. So again, this is something I should look at. Maybe that's my intention, maybe that's a problem. But you can see right away, I get prompted to upgrade my support plan to get all Trusted Advisor checks. So let me show you what I mean. On the left-hand side, we have the Recommendation categories. And if I click on Cost optimization, as you can see, I get none of the checks available because I need to update my support plan. So all these things are actually not available for me and I need to pay for the service to actually make some cost optimizations. Same for performance, I get access to nothing. If I go to Fault tolerance, again, I get access to nothing. Operational excellence, again, access to nothing. The only two things I have access to is security. So here, we get some checks, the core checks. And in here, I have my Bucket Permissions, my Security Group ports, my EBS Public Snapshot, RDS Public Snapshot, and so on. But as soon as I go in here to the more advanced security checks, then, again, I need to update my support plan. Finally, you can have a look at Service limits directly in Trusted Advisor. That's one way of doing it. So you can have a look at your Auto Scaling Groups, your CloudFormation Stacks, your DynamoDB Read and Write Capacity and so on. So Trusted Advisor is not a very interesting service to look at when you don't pay for the support plan, but at least this should give you an idea of how Trusted Advisor is used in AWS, and therefore answer your exam questions on it. All right, so that's it. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 11 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*