<!-- Section 3 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 3 OF 15: Getting Started with Amazon S3
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Demo - Setting Up Your AWS Account

All right. In this quick demo, we're going to showcase how you can go ahead and create a brand new AWS account. So in Chrome here I am at AWS, Amazon.com. And this of course is going to look different every time you look at it. You may be looking at kind of a different screen just depending on how often AWS updates their landing page. But almost every time you're going to find either create an AWS account at the top right or get started for free. So I'm going to create this create an AWS account. It's going to bring us to this screen. Now what we're going to do is we're going to provide our root user email address. And then an AWS account name. This is going to be a name for our account. So what I'm going to do is go ahead and create an email. Now I'm going to go ahead and blur this out just because it is my personal email address. But I'm going to go ahead and add my email in here. And in this case for AWS Account name, I'm going to call this Amazon S3 Deep Dive. So I'm going to click on Verify my email address. So it's going to go ahead and send an email. I'm going to go over here and look at that. It's already here. AWS email verification. So I'm going to click into it I'm going to grab this code and go back over here. Enter the verification code say verify. And it says cool it's you. Your email address has been verified. So now it wants me to add a root user password. Now this is going to be the root user password that you're going to log into the accounts and start working with AWS. Now best practices for AWS means that you shouldn't be using the root password all the time. You should only use it to create other users and ultimately use those other users to manage your AWS account. So I'm going to go ahead and add a password in here. There we go I'm going to confirm that password. Continue. Step one of five. So it's going to say I need some contact information. How do you plan to use AWS. Well in this case we're going to select personal. So who should we contact about this account? Well, let's contact me because I own this account now. My phone number. I'm going to put my phone number in here again. I'm going to blur that out. I am in United States. I'm going to go ahead and enter my address in here again. And then my postal code. And I'm going to click on I have read and agree to the terms. So continue to step two here. Now it needs some billing information. Now AWS does provide us with this free tier where when we create a brand new account, we get tons and tons of free tier stuff for up to a year. But not everything is valid for free tier. So if you do go over that, well, they're going to need a way to bill you. So what we'll do is go ahead and add a credit card in here. So I'm going to go ahead and put my number in there. I'm going to select my Expiration date. The cardholder name is me and I'm going to verify and continue here. Confirm our identity. How should we send the verification code? Well, I'm just going to choose text message. So I'm going to go ahead and put my cell phone number in here. I'm going to go ahead and try to read this security check. Tell you what Amazon has some pretty tricky ones. Sometimes they are a little bit hard to read. And I do get them wrong often. So sometimes you have to click this little refresh to get a new one. You can also click the little speaker here if you're having trouble reading this, and I'll read it out loud to you. So I'm going to click on send SMS. And hopefully we got that security code right. And let me grab my phone and we will validate our code here. So I checked my phone and I have the code that was sent. So it was 1739. So I'm going to add that continue to step four of five. I'm just going to choose basic support plan here. Again if you are a business you can make the choice to select developer support for $29 a month or business support for 100 a month, so I'm going to leave it on basic free and do complete sign up here that's going to ultimately create my account. Thank you for signing up with AWS. I can now go to the AWS Management Console and I can start looking around here. Now, I have seen in the past where sometimes when you create a new account, sometimes it takes a little bit for things to start working. So what I'm going to do is go ahead and log in with the email address that I just created. So that would be this. And go ahead and put in my password. Hopefully I remember the one that I used and click sign in and there we go. We have access to AWS with our brand new accounts here. So you can see the account name at the top right AWS, S3 Deep Dive. You can see the account ID and all that good stuff. And now we have access to use any of the services in AWS.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Accessing Amazon S3 using the AWS Console

Now that we have access to our brand new account here, what we can do is we can access Amazon S3 directly. Now you can see I've already logged into our new account here at the top, right? You can see I'm currently in Ohio region, so if I click that, I can choose any of our regions. And it also says there are ten regions that are not enabled for this account. You can enable them if you need to, but I'm going to choose Northern Virginia here. So we're going to go to Northern Virginia, which is US East One, and now we can go to the Amazon S3 Service. So one of the commonly visited services is S3 and it's right here in the middle. But I'm going to showcase how to do it the hard way. I guess if you click on the search bar in the top left here, you can simply type in S3 and it'll bring up you can click on this for S3. The other way you can do it is click on services on the top left here and you can bring down a menu of all the services that are available. Now, if you scroll all the way down, you can see storage down here at the bottom and of course you can click on S3 or any other storage platform that you need. So I'm going to go ahead and click on S3 here. Again, you can search for it or choose it from the list of services. And there we go. We have access to the Amazon S3 console. Now we can immediately create a bucket using this button right here. Or you can see these three lines over here. You can click them, you get access to the side menu. So if you click on buckets over here, you can see that, well, we don't have any buckets because this is a brand new account. Of course, we don't have any buckets. Right? You can see that you get access to all the other features of Amazon S3, including access points, batch operations. Here's our block public access settings for our accounts. Here's storage lens, other things in here as well. So again, easy way to access the Amazon S3 service just by typing in S3 in the search bar or choosing S3 from the list of services underneath of the storage category.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Using the AWS CLI

All right. In this short demonstration, I'm going to show you how you can use the AWS CLI in order to interact with S3. Now, on the screen here, I just have a simple terminal window on my MacBook and we're going to use that to interact directly with S3. Now, I'm not going to go through that in this course. I will, however, add links to AWS documentation to show you exactly how to do that, because, you know, different folks are running on Mac, on Windows, on Linux, etcetera. So you can choose the installation type that is right for you and just simply install the AWS CLI. Now once it is installed, well, we need to provide the AWS CLI with some type of credential. So if we type in AWS configure and hit enter, it's going to ask you a set of questions. It's going to say, okay, what is the AWS access key that will give you access to view things inside of this account? Now I already have some of my information in there, but I'm going to go ahead and add it in here just so you can see. All right. So I'm going to copy my access key and I'm going to put it in here and hit enter. I'm going to provide my secret key and I'm going to copy that from my other screen and enter it here and hit enter. I'm going to leave the default region name as US East one and default output format. I'm just going to leave the default as none. All right. So now I have provided my access key and my secret key, so now I can start interacting with S3 using the AWS CLI or any AWS service for that matter that I have permission for. So I'm going to clear the screen here. But what I want to showcase first is that if you don't use the AWS configure command, the other thing you can do is you can set all of your credentials using environment variables. So in the case that I want to set those environment variables, I'm going to go ahead and showcase how I do that. You would do export and then you would say AWS access key ID and you provide your your access key ID, you would use AWS secret access key for your secret. And then finally, default region for the region that you want to use. All right. So I'm just going to get rid of this right now since we configured it using our AWS configure. So cool. So the first thing that we can do that interact with S3 using the AWS CLI is do the simplest form of interacting with S3 and simply list out our buckets. So we do AWS S3 when we're interacting with S3 and I'm simply going to do an LS for list. So I hit Enter here and you can see it lists out the buckets that I have in my account. All right, So I have a bucket called Brian Kraus and Bucket Private. I have one called CF, which CF is actually CloudFormation template. So if you upload a cloudformation template, it creates a bucket for you automatically. I have a data analytics sales team bucket and then another one called my data lookup bucket BC. All right. I have no idea what that is, but it's in my account. So just by doing an AWS S3 LS, you can actually see our buckets that are in our accounts. So what if we want to see objects inside of our bucket? Well, that's really easy to do to AWS S3 LS And then we can type in S3, colon slash, slash and then our bucket name. So in this case, I'm just going to copy this bucket name right here. And then I'm just going to add that down here. All right. So as three Brian Carlson, bucket, private and hit enter here. And now we can see that I have data inside of my bucket. Right? These are individual objects that live inside of that one bucket. So I don't have any prefixes in here. I just have like 5 or 6 files directly at the root. All right? And most of them are just PNGs or JPEGs or something. All right? Now you can see when they were uploaded, you can see the size of these objects as well. All right. So easy way to list out the contents inside of a bucket. Now, the other thing I want to quickly showcase is how we can interact with our data. Say we want to move some of those files that we just looked at. Maybe we want to move those into a prefix. So I'm going to hit up and I'm just going to list those out again so we can see those. And now I want to move that. So let's say AWS S3 and then MV for Move. And I'm going to point to the object that I want to move. So S3 Colon slash, slash. And our bucket name was Brian Crowson, dash bucket dash private. And the object that I want to move is maybe Avatar dot PNG and I want to go ahead and move that into S3 colon slash slash Brian Crowson dash bucket dash private And I want to go ahead and move that into a prefix called images. All right. And we'll call that avatar dot PNG. All right. So we're going to take this image that's right here in the root of our bucket, which we're referencing right here. And we're going to move that into a prefix called images. And we're going to call that avatar dot PNG. So if I hit enter there, we should be able to move it. So it has been moved. All right. So I'm going to clear the screen one more time. Let's go ahead and list out our objects inside of our bucket. Now you can see we actually have a prefix, right? Pre prefix called images. And now you don't see Avatar anymore. We've actually moved it inside of our images. All right. Now, the last thing I want to showcase real quick is how you can use the recursive flag in order to showcase everything. So that would be AWS, S3 LS, S3, colon slash, slash, and then our bucket name. So Brian Crowson dash bucket dash private and now we can do dash dash recursive and what that is going to do is showcase all of our objects, including any objects that are inside any of our prefixes. So I've hit enter here and now you can actually see instead of just showing, hey, there's a prefix here, it actually shows me that, hey, there's an object under the prefix called images right here. All right. So it calls out our prefix and then it calls out our object name. And of course, it showcases all the other objects inside of our bucket as well. All right. So very brief introduction to the AWS CLI and you can use all of the different commands or sub commands to interact with S3 as needed. So thanks for watching. Hopefully that was helpful for you and we'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Creating Your First Bucket

Now that we've accessed the Amazon S3 console, what we're going to do is go ahead and create a new bucket. So I've clicked on buckets on the left here and I'm going to click this button right here in the middle. It says Create Bucket, or you can click on this yellow one in the top, right. So create a bucket. So what is our bucket name going to be? Remember, it must be globally unique and it can't contain spaces or uppercase letters, anything like that. So in this case, let's type in Amazon S3 deep dive dash bucket. How about that? Hopefully nobody's taking that name Now the AWS region. I want to store my data in. I'm just going to leave it as us-east-1. But of course you can choose other regions as well. So feel free to choose the region that's closest to you. Now I can copy the settings from an existing bucket, but I don't have any buckets in this account, so we can't do that for object ownership. I'm just going to leave the defaults right now. So leave ACLs disabled and bucket owner is going to be enforced. So that means that no matter who uploads objects to my bucket, well the bucket owner is going to own them. If you continue to scroll down, here's our block public access settings for this bucket. Notice that it's automatically checked for block all public access. We're going to leave that enabled for right now. But later on in the course we will uncheck that so we can showcase how you can make objects public. If we scroll down, here's where we can enable bucket versioning. So we'll go ahead and enable that. Here's where we can add tags to our bucket if we want to. We have default encryption server side encryption is automatically applied to any new objects. If you want to change the default to KMS, you can simply click this. You can choose from your list of keys here for the key that you want to use to encrypt your data. By default, you can choose whether you want to use a bucket key. I'm going to enable that. And of course you can also click on advanced Settings. You can see Object Lock is in here. We're not going to use object Lock right now, so we'll just disregard that for now and we'll see that in a future section of the course. So I'm going to minimize that and I'm going to go ahead and click Create Bucket down here. Oh, I forgot to choose S3 We're just going to leave the default as SSH S3 and I'm going to click Create Bucket and there we go. Successfully created a bucket Amazon S3 Deepdive Bucket. That means no one else in the world has that bucket. Now I own that bucket. You can't go create this bucket name in your account because I now own it. You can maybe create this bucket name, put your name at the end. So now we have our first bucket in AWS and we can immediately start putting files into it. That's pretty much it for this one. We're going to continue on with the lessons, but I want to quickly showcase how we can get into AWS. I can quickly get into the Amazon S3 console and of course create our bucket because it's really important for me to have students hands on quickly in the course so we get access to the tools that we're learning and start playing around with all the fun stuff. So thanks for watching this one and we'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Student Challenge Solution - Getting Started with Amazon S3

All right. Welcome to the first student challenge of this course. These student challenges are designed to get you hands on experience with S3 versus just watching me talk in a lecture and showcasing things in a demo. When you are learning any new topic, it's always beneficial for you to get hands on experience. So I thought it was important to add these student challenges in this course. So let's take a look at our first student challenge, which is getting started with Amazon S3 So the first student challenge is create an S3 bucket. Now your manager is asking you to create an S3 bucket to store the company's website, images and assets. So you need to complete the following tasks. So the first thing we're going to do is create an S3 bucket and you can use the AWS management console or the AWS CLI if you're more comfortable that way. So what we're going to do in this video is we're going to follow through these step by step and we're going to walk through setting up this bucket and following all the directions in this student challenge. So on the other tab here, you can see that I have S3 already open and this is a brand new account. I don't have anything configured in this account because I wanted to mimic what it would look like maybe in your account. So anything in the student challenges is going to be different from anything that you see in the course. Because I wanted to keep it separate and again, mimic what it would look like in your account. So again, let's take a look at the instruction. The first thing says create an S3 bucket using the console, and it says, Use this particular name. All right. So I'm going to copy this name. We're going to S3, we're going to click on this big yellow button that says Create Bucket. All right. So I'm going to go ahead and paste that in there. And what we're going to do is take out your name and I'm going to put my name obviously on your side. Go ahead and replace it with your name. Now, if it's not unique, you may need to add your last name as well. So let's take a look at the instructions. It says, Choose the appropriate region for the S3 bucket. Considering the company location and the target audience. Now it says assume the location is near the region that's closest to you. All right. So from my side, I'm kind of equally far from northern Virginia and Ohio. I'll go ahead and choose Ohio. Obviously, if you're in Europe or India or something like that, choose a region that's closest to you. All right. Let's look at the instructions. It says, enable bucket versioning. So as we scroll down, we're going to go find bucket versioning and simply click on Enable. Now, we obviously haven't talked about bucket versioning in the course yet, don't worry about that. But want to go ahead and enable that up front. Now it says leave the remaining defaults for all the bucket configurations. So we're going to do that. We're going to scroll to the bottom and we're going to click on Create Bucket to create our first Amazon S3 bucket. So here we have the name Amazon S3 Deepdive Dash Bucket dash website dash. Brian You can see the region is US east two bucket and objects are not public. We haven't made any of the changes you can see when it was created. So we have our first bucket. Now what we can do is we can click into this bucket here and we can see, well, we don't have any objects because we just created the bucket, right? So let's go look at the instructions. The instructions say the images need to be organized based upon the website's different sections, home page, product data and blog. Create the folder structure. So what we need to do is go into our bucket and we're going to create our prefixes or our folders based upon the requirements. So we have one called Home page product, Blog and data. So we're going to go in here and we're simply going to click on Create folder and we'll create the first one called Home Page. That was the first one, right? We had home page right here, and then we're just going to scroll down and click Create folder, right, super easy, just like you would do on your own machine. So the next one we're going to create is called product. So we'll type that in, scroll to the bottom hit create folder, create folder. Again, the next one is going to be blog, add that Create folder. And finally we're going to create folder. And the last one was data. So we'll type in data here for our folder name and click Create folder. All right, so inside of our bucket now we have four prefixes or folders, blog data, home page and product. All right, so let's see what we need to do next based upon our instructions. So now we need to upload the objects as follows. Now all the reference objects are going to be over here under resources right here, and you can simply click on them and download them locally. Okay? So as you click on them, it's going to download to your downloads folder and you'll have those same files. All right. Now I've got those already listed right here and we're going to go ahead and upload those as requested. So I'm just going to move this to the other screen so it's easier to follow along. We'll go back over here. It says in The Root, we're going to put our customer sales dot PDF. All right. So root means that we're not going to put it inside of a folder. We're going to leave it at the root of the S3 bucket. So I'm going to grab customer sales and to upload you can simply drag and drop if you want to. All right. Now I'm going to leave all the defaults and simply click on upload. That's done. We can click on close and now you can see we have our prefixes, but we also have our customer sales. Pete PDF. Okay, now let's look at the instructions. It says Under the home page we're going to add world map and course cover. All right, So what we'll do is go into home page, we're going to click on this prefix No objects In this prefix I'm going to find world map and course cover. I'm going to drag and drop those over here. I'm going to scroll down, click on upload. All right, so that's done. Hit close. Now, again, we're under the home page prefix here under our bucket called Amazon S3 Deepdive Bucket website. Brian And you can see we have two objects. So you can click on the bucket at the top to go back to the bucket level. The next instructions say underneath product S3 Bucket Logo.jpg. Click on product. Find our S3 bucket logo drag and drop it over here. Upload. Close. We're done. Go back one level. Almost done. I know it seems sort of repetitive. Under blog, we're going to add our Covid 19 stats PDF. Scroll down. Upload. Close that out. And then finally, underneath of data, we're going to add transportation stats dot CSV. So underneath of data, grab our transportation stats, do that and click on upload. All right, that's finished. And we've got our data. So now we've wrapped up all the instructions here. We went ahead and created your first S3 bucket. We use this name. We chose the region for the bucket. We enabled versioning. We left all the defaults and created the bucket. Then we created all of these prefixes or folders inside of our bucket and we uploaded all the data to this specific prefixes that we need to. So this student challenge is going to prep us for all the remaining student challenges throughout the course. So congrats on creating your first S3 bucket and uploading your first objects into your S3 bucket.

---

*Section 3 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
