<!-- Section 16 of 20 | Course: ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 16 OF 20: Migration and Transfer Services You Should Know
**Course:** `ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional`

---
### Lecture: AWS DataSync

So now, let's talk about AWS DataSync. And DataSync is a service that is appearing now quite a lot at the exam. It's a very simple one, but you need to know what it does and its core. So the idea as an image, to indicate is to synchronize data. Therefore, move large amount of data to, and from places. And these places can be for example, on-premises or other cloud locations into AWS. So you would connect to your server using the NFS, the SMB, the HDFS, or other protocols, and it needs an agent to run on-premises or on the other cloud to do that connection. And you can, for example, do other types of migrations. For example, you can move data from one AWS service to another AWS service. And this requires no agent. I will show you what it means. So the idea is that you can synchronize data to Amazon S3 including any storage classes, even Glacier. Amazon EFS, to store into your network file system, or Amazon FSx, and it supports all of them. Now, the replication tasks are not continuous. They are scheduled, so you can make DataSync run hourly, daily, or weekly. So there's a lag, okay? But the data is going to be synchronized on a schedule. On top of it, DataSync has the ability to keep the file permissions and the metadata. That means the security and so on. So that means that it's compliance with the NFS POSIX file system and the SMB permissions. This is very important because at the exam, this will be the unique option that will preserve the metadata of your file when moving them from one location to another. One DataSync agent can be quite powerful. It can run one task, can use up to 10 gigabits of data per second. Although, if you don't want to max out your network you can set up a bandwidth limits. So let's have a look at what it means in the diagram. So here is the use case of synchronizing your on-premises files using the SMB or NFS protocol into AWS. And that could be S3, EFS or FSx. So you have your on-premises and then your AWS region where DataSync is running. So here is your NFS or SMB server. And what you have to do is to install on-premises the AWS DataSync agent, and you will tell it to connect to your NFS or SMB server. And then the DataSync agent will establish a connection and also connect in an encrypted fashion into the DataSync service. From there, you can tell it to go wherever you want. That could be any storage class for your Amazon S3 buckets or it could be AWS, EFS, or it could be Amazon FSx. And the synchronization can happen one way from on-premises to AWS, but you can also synchronize from AWS back into on-premises. This is why it's called DataSync. It can work any way. Now, sometimes at the exam we will tell you that we want to use DataSync, but we don't have the network capacity to do so. Therefore, what you have to think about is to use the AWS Snowcone device specifically because the Snowcone device comes with the DataSync agent pre-install on it. So you can run Snowcone on-premises, then it will pull your data, run the DataSync agents, then it will be shipped back into your AWS region and then synchronize your data to the storage resources of AWS. So that is to show the architecture of synchronization from on-premises to AWS, or it could be for example, another cloud to AWS using the DataSync agents. But you can also use DataSync to just synchronize between different AWS storage services. For example, do you want synchronize between Amazon S3, or Amazon EFS, or Amazon FSx, back into Amazon S3, Amazon EFS, or Amazon FSx. And for this, again, we will use the AWS DataSync service and it will copy the data of course, but also the metadata will be kept between the different AWS storage services, which is very important. And again, something that can come up in the exam. So to remind you, DataSync can pretty much synchronize between anything, but it is not continuous. It is scheduled task that can be happening hourly, daily, weekly, and also it will preserve metadata and your file permissions. And finally, you need to run the DataSync agents if you are connecting to an NFS or SMB server. Okay, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Transfer Family

Now let's talk about the AWS transfer family. So the idea is that you want to send data in and out of Amazon S3 or EFS but you don't want to use the S3 APIs. You don't want to use the EFS network file system. You just want to use the FTP protocol. In this case, you need to use the transfer family service from AWS. So it supports three kinds of protocols. It supports AWS transfer for FTP. So the file transfer protocol, FTP. FTPS, which is the file transfer protocol over SSL, so encrypted form. Or SFTP, which is a secure file transfer protocol. Now you don't want you to be an expert on those. Just know that FTP is unencrypted whereas FTPS and SFTP are encrypted in flight. Now, the idea is that using the FTP protocol, you can upload to S3 or EFS. The transfer family is fully managed infrastructure. It's scalable, reliable, and highly available. So you manage at all that capability. And in terms of pricing, you're going to pay per provision end points per hour, plus a fee per gigabytes of data transferred in and out of the transfer family. You can store and manage a user's credentials for that service within the service. Or you can also integrate with existing authentication system, such as Microsoft Active Directory, LDAP, Okta, Amazon Cognito or any custom source. The usage of this is obviously to have an FTP interface into Amazon S3 or EFS. So as to share files, to share public datasets, to do CRM, ERP, et cetera, et cetera. So just the diagram for you to understand. The transfer family has three flavors and the users can access directly using the end points of the FTP or optional, you can use a GNS called route 53 to provide your own the host name into the FTP service. And then the FTP service thus so the transfer for FTP service will have an IAM role that will be assumed to send or read through the files from Amazon S3 or Amazon EFS. And this is done transparently. You don't have to set any many things up. And finally, if you wanted to secure the transfer family services then you could authenticate your users using an external authentication system such as Active Directory, LDAP or all the things I've just said in the previous slide. Okay. So let's say, just that you know, this feature as a high level, I hope you liked it. and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 16 of 20 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*