<!-- Section 6 of 13 | Course: aws-ai-practitioner-certified -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 6 OF 13: Amazon Q - Deep Dive
**Course:** `aws-ai-practitioner-certified`

---
### Lecture: Section Introduction

In this section, we are going to learn about Amazon Q. So I really like Amazon Q because once you've set it up, it really enables new use cases for your company with your internal data. And on top of it, Amazon Q is starting to slowly change your experience of interacting with the AWS Cloud. And I think over time, is going to become more and more prominent and more and more powerful. So we are in the early days, but it's a good time to learn about it. So I hope you're excited and I will see you in this section.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q Business

So now let's talk about Amazon Q Business. So Amazon Q Business is a fully managed Gen-AI assistant for your employees. What does that mean? Well, we have an assistant, but it's based entirely on your company's knowledge and data. So here, this is a very specific use case where Gen-AI is for your company and it's trained on your internal data. So for example, what can you ask Amazon Q Business? Well, you can say, "Write a job posting for a senior product manager role", where we have of course, this role being very relevant to whatever our company is doing, or "Create a social media post under 50 words to advertise the new role". Or for example, "What was discussed during the team meeting in the week of the 4/12?" And so of course, all of this cannot be answered by a general foundation model. It needs to be a model that has been trained on your own internal data with the right security, of course. So as a whole, Amazon Q Business can answer questions, provide summaries, and generate content and automate tasks, as well as perform routine actions such as, for example, doing stuff such as submitting time-off request or sending meeting invites. Behind the scene Amazon Q Business is built on Amazon Bedrock, but we have less control so we cannot choose what is the underlying foundation model. And actually Amazon Q Business is built on multiple foundation model from Amazon Bedrock. So this is a service, that's a little bit higher level, geared toward a very specific use case of using and exposing your company internal data from an LLM Gen-AI perspective. So here's an example, we're saying what is the annual total out of pocket maximum mentioned in the health plan summary? So this is for our company, we're in the medical space and we have a company document, a PDF, that has the very answer. And so Amazon Q Business is able to look up that document, look at what the document says, and then re give us the answer in our chat, similar to RAG of course. And then of course we will have a sources section where we say, hey, the sources of this is the health plan PDF document, and you can click on it and find it right away. So let's have a look at a diagram to better understand Amazon Q Business. So here it is, we have first some data connectors. So data connectors are fully managed RAG, and you can connect to over 40 popular enterprise data sources. So you don't have to learn about them all, but it's good to see some of them. So we have Amazon S3, where we can store data files onto AWS, it's a very popular service. We have Amazon RDS, it's a database service, we have Aurora, another database service, and WorkDocs, a service used specifically for documents on AWS. And then we have non AWS services, such as Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Google Drive, Gmail, Slack, SharePoint, et cetera, et cetera. And the idea is that Amazon Q Business will have built-in integrations with these services. And then once the integration is made, then it will crawl these sources and do what is supposed to do to allow you to search them and query them. Next, we have also plugins. So before data connectors was about retrieving data and understanding what is the knowledge inside of our company, but next we have plugins. And plugins allow Amazon Q Business to actually interact with third party services. For example, we have Jira, ServiceNow, Zendesk, Salesforce, et cetera, et cetera. And the idea is that, for example, if we say to Amazon Q Business, "Hey, create a Jira issue", this is to create a ticket so we can track a problem in our company, then Amazon Q Business will leverage the plugin and automatically create that Jira issue for us. So on top of reading data, Amazon Q Business has the ability to create and move data in your company as well. And you can extend it because you can create custom plugins to connect to any third party application using APIs. Now, how do we access Amazon Q Business? Well, our users are going to be authenticated through something called IAM Identity Center. So IAM Identity Center is a way for users to log in and we'll see how, and then once user are logged in, then they will only have access to the documents they should have access to. So by using your whole company data with Amazon Q Business, you still have the certainty that someone with less privilege will not be able to access all your documents, otherwise that would be of course a big security risks. Here we have IAM Identity Center, and our users are going to log into it by just having a sign in box where you enter a username and a password and you're good to go. And then you have what's called an authenticated user with its own permissions because IAM Identity Center knows what the user is able to access or not. And then the user can ask questions to Amazon Q Business, which is a web application, and of course access only the documents it should have access to. On top of it, you can integrate IAM Identity Center with what's called External Identity Providers or IDP. And it could be, for example, a Google login or a Microsoft Active directory and so on. And so that means that instead of logging in and getting an AWS based sign in page, you're going to log in with a system where users are already created. For example, it could be your active directory where you have your Microsoft login, or it could be your Google login, for example, if you're using the G Suite type of workspace for your company. So this is very handy and it's really going hand in hand with whatever security systems you have in place in your company. Next we have admin controls. So these are controls used to customize responses based on what your organization needs. So admin controls are pretty much the exact same thing as Guardrails in Amazon Bedrock. So for example, if we have a blocked topic such as gaming consoles, and our employee's asking, "Hey, how can I configure a brand new Nintendo Switch?" Then you're going to use the Amazon Q Business is going to say, "Well, this is a restricted topic", so we can block specific words or topics, and we can also choose for Amazon Q to respond only with internal information versus using also external knowledge. So if we specify it to only use internal information, then only your company documents will be used to respond to a query. If not, then we have access to the broader knowledge of the foundation model. You can also make sure to set up these admin controls, either on the global control, global level, that means for all type of topics and all type of subjects. Or you can set up some more specifically at a topic level so you have more specific admin controls, but they're the same as just at what level do you want to apply them? So that's it for Amazon Q Business, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q Business - Hands On

Okay, so let's go ahead and practice using Amazon Q Business. So we're going to click on Amazon Q Business. Get started. And you may have a warning about a region. So choose the region that works for you. For example, if I choose Frankfurt, you see it's not going to work. So I need to choose, for example, Ireland. So we're going to create a generative application that's going to use our internal knowledge base. So let's create this application and it's going to be named Q Business Demo. And here for user access, to keep things very simple, we're going to use anonymous access. This removes a lot of the setup around users. So please follow me with this. Actually for this hands-on, please do not follow me. Please, please, please do not do what I do. The hands-on is valid and shows you how to use Amazon Q, but I realize after recording it that the consumption pricing for doing anonymous use cases is $200 per month and you get charged right away for this. So if you wanted to be charged less, you would need to use Amazon Q Business Light or Q Business Pro. But this includes user access functionality, and it's very difficult to set this up. That's why I wanted to keep the video simple and doing anonymous access. So for anonymous access, end users have the same functionality; it's just the other methods are more difficult to set up. So I do anonymous. Don't do anonymous or don't follow along. Just watching the video is enough, trust me, to understand the capability of Amazon Q Business. But please, if you follow along, be ready to pay $200 for a month. So this was painful for me. Okay, I've warned you enough. Now let's go back to the video. Obviously, this is not good for production access, but for a demo, this is perfect. And then we're going to just create this application right here. And now my application is created. So let's preview the web experience right here. Actually, I click on it and I'm going to have access to the Q Business chat. So here's a chat and I'm in guest mode, and I say, "What is the World Wide Web?" And as you can see right now, it says, "Well, please ask your IT admin to add data sources." So we don't have any data source, so let's add one. So on the left-hand side, let's click on Data sources, and we're going to add an index and then connect data sources, and then we're going to be good to go. So no index has been added to this application. Let's add an index. So an index costs you some money, but we'll use a starter type of index. Good for proof of concept, development, and testing. And for a number of units is how many documents we can have in our data source. We'll just choose one, which is the lowest amount of units, which is 20,000 documents or 200 megabytes, whichever comes first, which is enough. So let's create this index. And now this can take some time, approximately 20 minutes to complete. Still, let's scroll down and learn more about the options. So now we need to add a data source. So let's click on Add data source and we can have a look at the different options that we have access to. So this is where Amazon Q Business is going to base its knowledge upon. So the most popular is Amazon S3, and that's the one we're going to be using. But you have different options. So you have Asana, Box, Dropbox, GitHub, Google Drive, Google Calendar. I mean, a lot of where the information lives in your enterprise can be used actually to be a source of information for Amazon Q Business. So if you have all your information on SharePoint, you may want to set up SharePoint as a source, but we'll keep it simple. And for now, we'll use Amazon S3. So we click on it and I'll call it My S3 Knowledge Base. I scroll down. We need to select an IAM role, so we'll use a new service role, recommended, and it's going to be automatically configured. Perfect. Now the sync scope. So where is our S3 bucket where the data is stored? So we're going to browse Amazon S3, and currently we have none. So let's go into Amazon S3, and I'm going to create a knowledge base bucket like this one, but this time not in us-east-1. I will select it in eu-west-1, which is where I am right now. So let's create a bucket and I'll name it this one, eu-west-1. The rest is the same. I will create this bucket and it's going to be created in the proper region now in Ireland. This is perfect. And for the files, I'm just going to have in my bucket the exact same file as before. So let me download this Evolution of the Internet file. Perfect. And I'm going to just upload it back in this bucket. So we're going to upload it. So now I've selected my file and then I click on Upload. All right, so we're good to go. So now in this bucket right here, we have this Evolution of the Internet Detailed PDF. Let's go here and we're going to refresh the sync scope, select my bucket, this one, choose it. Maximum single file size 50 megabytes is good. We're not going to touch any of these advanced options. We'll select a full sync and the schedule of the full sync is going to be on demand. This is just so we can have a sync now button and get started. But obviously, in production, you may want to have only a sync for new, modified, or deleted content, and you may want to have it, for example, run on an hourly basis. So by the way, my index is now created, so we're good with this tutorial. So let's go ahead. We are going to click on Add data source and it says that because we are enabling anonymous access for Q Business Demo, so no users, we can access data sources without authentication and so therefore Amazon S3 will be publicly accessible. This is fine for this demo tutorial. Obviously, this is not a production setup, it's just to show you the capability of Amazon Q Business. So my data source is now created and I'm going to close all these popups and you can just click on Sync now to synchronize whatever is in your S3 bucket to your index. This can take a few minutes to a few hours. It's going to take less time, I think, because we only have one document, but everything that belongs in our S3 bucket, so all the knowledge base, is going to be synced into the index, and that index can be then leveraged by our data source. So let's wait for the sync to be happening. Okay, so it took a little bit of time, but here we are. We have one item being scanned and it's been indexed. And so therefore, what's going to happen now is that if I go back to Amazon Q Business and ask it, "What is the World Wide Web?" hopefully we're going to get a better answer. And we get better information. So it's been invented by this guy, Tim Berners-Lee, in 1989, and we have the sources that are linked directly to the PDF in my demo bucket with the specific passage where this was actually quoted from. So this is super nice. So we have the events, the sources, and so on. The events tell you what happened during the queries and for the response to happen. The sources tell you which documents were used. And then you can also give some feedback around good response, bad response, or even copy the response. But if you ask it, for example, "Give me a recipe for chili?" well, it says, "Well, listen, I have found no answer based on your knowledge base." So right now, Amazon Q Business is set up to only give me answers based on my data sources. You can change it if you wanted to with this here around admin controls and guardrails. So here, instead of allowing Amazon Q to fall back to LLM knowledge off, if you set this to on, and actually I cannot do this right now because I don't have access to this option, but if you set this to on, probably if you have a user activated, like, then you can fall back to LLM knowledge. But this may not be desirable. You may only want to have answers based on your internal knowledge. Also here you have controls for topic-specific controls. So you can set up some guardrails around some things you may not want to see answered by Amazon Q, but that gives you the idea. You can add as many data sources as you want, pretty much around 50 data sources per application, configure them, and get this AI-powered internal knowledge base internally in your company. So I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture. And don't forget actually to delete your application because there is an ongoing cost to having an index. All right, so that's it. I hope you liked it and I will see you now in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q Apps

So now let's talk about Amazon Q Apps. Q Apps are part of Q Business and the idea is that you can create Gen AI-powered apps without coding by only using natural language. So we have a web UI called Amazon Q Apps Creator and in there you can specify a prompt to describe the type of app you want to have and again, this app is going to be based on your company data. So you're going to say, "Hey, I want to do this kind of app" and, automatically, Amazon Q App is going to generate for you a web application where we can, for example, upload a document and then upload prompts and so on and our users can use this app, so it really makes it super easy for anyone in your company to create an app based on your company's internal data, as well as leveraging plugins, so anyone can create a very quick app without using developers and that's the idea behind Amazon Q Apps.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q Developer

So now, let's talk about Amazon Q Developer. So, Amazon Q Developer is a service that has two sides, and the first one is about answering question about AWS documentation and how to select an AWS service. It can also answer questions about the resources in your AWS accounts. So for example, we as developers say, "Hey, list all of my Lambda function." And Lambda is a service in AWS. And we may have created many Lambda functions, but we don't know what they are or where they are. And so, Amazon Q developer will say, "Hey, yes. You have five AWS Lambda resources in the region us-east-1 and here are the names of them." So, this is pretty cool because now we can talk to our AWS accounts using natural language. On top of it, it can suggest CLI. So, Command Line Interface commands to run and make changes to your accounts. And it can also analyze your AWS bill, also resolve errors and do troubleshooting. And I'm pretty sure it's going to become more and more powerful over time. So, here's an example. We have Amazon Q and we say, "Change the timeout of a Lambda function. Test API1 in the Singapore region to 10 seconds." And right now Amazon Q cannot do this for us, but what it can do is set up a command for us. So this is the command is going to create. And then we can run this command to actually change the timeout, which is pretty cool because this is a step that we don't have to figure out. The command is going to be perfectly executed when we run it. Also, for example, we can ask Amazon Q, "What were the top three highest cost services in Q1 from my accounts?" And then automatically it's going to say, "Well, you had Amazon SageMaker, you had Amazon Elastic Container Service and AWS Config" and give us a cost analysis. And this is pretty cool because, well, this type of data analysis would maybe take us a little bit of time, but Amazon Q is doing it for us by using the own data of our AWS accounts. The other side of Amazon Q Developer is an AI code companion. So, very different. But the idea is that you can code new applications similarly to GitHub Copilot, and it's specialized of course for AWS-based developments. So for example, we say, "Write me Python code to list all the files in a given Amazon S3 bucket." And then it will accept one parameter name_bucketname and return a list of files in that S3 buckets. And so, here we have the Python code generated by Amazon Q Developer that fits this purpose. Now, Amazon Q Developer supports many languages such as Java, JavaScript, Python, TypeScript, and C#. And of course is going to add more languages over time in terms of support. So on top of it, it can give you real time code suggestions while you code in your code editor and security scan. And there's even a software agent from Amazon Q that is going to be used to implement features or generate documentation in your code, or bootstrapping new projects. That means creating the base files for new projects for you to get started. So this part of the coding assistant, the AI Code Assistant works with several IDE. So, IDE is an Integrated Development Environment. So, it's a software used to create code. And we have multiple popular ones such as Visual Studio Code, visual Studio, or JetBrains. And on top of it, you can answer questions about AWS development, do code completion and code generation, scan your code for security vulnerabilities, and do debugging optimizations and improvements. So the idea is that using Amazon Q Developer, you can really enhance the way you write code. And this is a very popular thing right now in the AI space to get code companion. So you have GitHub Copilot, which I think is the most popular one, but we also have Amazon Q developer. Very helpful when you want to do specialized things on AWS. So, that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q Developer - Hands On

So now let's have a look at Amazon Q and Amazon Q Developer, which to me are similar, but depends how their named. So let's look into Amazon Q first of all. It says, Q Developer is to build applications faster and spend less time solving software development problems. So this is the coding assistant on AWS, and I'm not going to code stuff for you, but there's a pricing page right here you can look at. So it's an AI coding assistant. And we have the Amazon Q Developer Free Tier, and then we have the Pro Tier, which is about $20 per month per user. And here we're going get some advanced features of course, and higher limits. So it's up to you to try it out if you wanted to, if your organization should implement it or not internally. From a practice purposes, we don't really have anything I can show you right now regarding Amazon Q Developer, but find some YouTube videos that show you how they can improve your coding skills if you're interested in this. But from an exam perspective, you know that it's a coding assistant. The other way we can use Amazon Q, so let's just type Amazon Q in here, is going to be around helping us deal with our infrastructure. So we have different bundles that we can use. So we have Amazon Q and we connected it already to IAM Identity Center. So we saw Amazon Q Business Lite and Amazon Q Business Pro when we were doing Amazon Q Business. We have Amazon Q Developer Pro, that's what I'll show you. So here we can manage our entire subscriptions of Amazon Q directly from this UI, and set the settings if you wanted to, but right now we can't change them. But more importantly, I wanna show you here the little button, which is Amazon Q, and it's considered to be Amazon Q Developer based on where you look at in the documentation. So it says, "Hello, I'm Amazon Q, and I'm your AWS generative assistant." And it says it should be able to access cross-region data. And I say, yes, please continue, because this is quite important. So now we have Amazon Q in this little window, and it's accessible from many different places in AWS, which I find really, really nice. And so we can do a conversation with it, and we have some suggestions. One of them is, for example, list my S3 buckets. So I click on it, and it's going to actually look in my account and list my S3 buckets. So remember, we created one bucket before, so Amazon Q should be able to find this bucket for us, and here it is. So we have one S3 bucket, one of them is called my-demo-bucket-knowledge-base-stefane. And we can click on it and directly go in it. So it's very nice, because now we are starting to have a gen AI assistant that is customized and knows what is going on in your AWS accounts. And over time it's going to be more and more developed and more and more featured. But I'm going to ask something else. So please send me the CLI code to create an S3 bucket in the us-east-1 region with the name stefane-demo-amazon-q. And so here we're asking Amazon Q to suggest a command for us to actually create an S3 bucket. So before we saw how to create an entry bucket by going into Buckets, and then click on Create bucket. But now I wanna show you another way. So this is called a CLI. So command line interface. And we run this and we should be able to create an S3 bucket. Now where to run it? Well, we can run it in what's called the CloudShell. So this button right here is CloudShell. I'm going to just open it. The first time you open it, it can take a little bit of time to create the environment and be ready. But here we go. This was much faster than before actually. And let's just paste the command we have right here from Amazon Q, and press Enter. And now the bucket has been created. How do we verify this? Well, two options. Number one, let's see if Amazon Q is actually fast. I'm going to ask it again, list my S3 bucket again, and now it's going to look up hopefully and find another S3 bucket. And also we can go, right now, I can show you, we can go directly into Amazon S3 and find that yes, a stefane-demo-amazon-q bucket was created for us. But let's verify. And in here, yes, that was awesome. So Amazon Q, using the gen AI capabilities, found that now we have two buckets in our accounts. And again, I can always say, suggest a command to delete the S3 buckets. And then we give the name again right here, and then it is going to generate a command line interface for us. So here we go. Ah, this is related to, so you see, you have restrictions as well on Amazon Q. So sometimes if it's related to security or compliance, they're sensitive and so therefore, there's no answer generated. But because maybe I didn't ask it correctly. So generate the CLI command that I can use to delete the S3 buckets, stefane-demo-amazon-q, and hopefully this is going to work. So Amazon Q right now has the capability to list things. Maybe later you, it will have some capability to delete things and create things, but this, over time, is going to get better. But hopefully you get the idea. So now if I just press my command right here, now the bucket has been removed, and I can verify this by going into Amazon S3, refreshing, and now I only see one bucket. So this is the power of Amazon Q. You can also ask it about your bill, so it can analyze your bill and help you understand how it's working. So if you have any kind of cost being incurred into your course, this would be a good place to ask and say, can you explain to me my current AWS charges? And right now I don't have any charges, because this is a new account. So maybe the answer is not gonna be any good. But in one month from now, if you're starting to see any cost data, as you can see, yes, we don't have anything right now, but later on we will have some answers from Amazon Q. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Q for AWS Services

So Amazon Q is a layer of intelligence that is slowly starting to be included in other AWS services, and so they can come up with the exam. So the first one is Amazon Q for QuickSight. So what is Amazon QuickSight? Well, Amazon QuickSight is a way for you to create dashboards and to visualize your data. And so when you do this in Amazon QuickSight, it's drag and drop. You select your accesses and so on. But you can also now use Amazon Q. And with Amazon Q, you just upload your dataset and then you ask natural language questions to your data and automatically, graphs can be generated. For example, in the graph here, I have sales by city and product as a map, and automatically, the map is created with the correct measures and so on, which is very helpful. So now to create our dashboards in QuickSight, we can just use Amazon Q and dictate what we want. So we can get executive summaries of your data. You can ask and answer questions about your data, and you can generate and edit visuals for your dashboards. We have Amazon Q for EC2. So what is EC2? Well, EC2 instances are virtual servers that you can start in AWS and they are very important. Amazon Q for EC2 helps you choose which EC2 instance type you're going to need for your workload. So for example, I asked, "Hey, I have a web service and I would like to run it to serve 1,000 users. Which EC2 instance type do you recommend?" And the recommended instance types are M7g and C7g, and we get the information why. We can also keep on talking to Amazon Q to add more requirements and get a better understanding if these requirements fit the EC2 instance type selected or if we need to change. So it's a dialog and we'll see Amazon EC2 instances geared for AI and ML workloads later on in this course. You also have Amazon Q for AWS Chatbot. So AWS Chatbot is a way for you to deploy a chatbot from AWS in a chat application, for example, Slack or Microsoft Teams. And this chatbot knows about your AWS accounts, so you can even ask it to run commands for you, and it will. So it's a way for you to never leave your chat application and still use AWS. So thanks to this AWS chatbot, you can troubleshoot issues or receive notifications for alarms, have security findings, billing alerts, or even create support requests directly from the chats. And how is Amazon Q integrated with it? Well, we can directly access Amazon Q through the AWS Chatbot. And so this will accelerate you to understand services, to troubleshoot issues or identify remediation paths. Amazon Q Developer can also help with Glue. So what is Glue? Glue is a ETL service. So that means extract, transform, and load. And it's used to move data across places on your cloud and from databases or storage options. So you may not know what Glue is or know how Glue works, but you may wanna use it and so Amazon Q can be very helpful in that instance. So you can chat to answer general questions about Glue and provide links to documentation. You can also generate code for AWS Glue, so you can generate code or answer questions about specific ETL scripts that you find in Glue. And finally, in case you have errors in your Glue jobs, Amazon Q Developer has been trained to understand these errors, and provide you step-by-step instructions to root cause and resolve your issues. So that's it for Amazon Q for other services. I will keep on adding this lecture if there are new services that come up. But so far, so good. You should be good for the exam. All right, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: PartyRock

So now let's talk about PartyRock, which is in the exam guide, so let's talk about it for a second, but it's not a real AWS service. So it's a playground for you to build Gen AI apps, and in the backend, it's powered by Amazon Bedrock. And you can access PartyRock simply without having an AWS account. So here, this allows anyone to build AI apps. So here, you can experiment with various financial model with no coding or accounts required. And the UI is actually very similar to Amazon Q Apps, but you have way less setup and no account required. So if you wanted to experiment with Q Apps, you could instead use PartyRock. Of course, you won't use your company internal data, but you can experiment with the different widgets that it can offer. So let me just give you a quick tour of PartyRock, which is going to be more than enough for you to understand what it does at the exam. So here I am on the PartyRock website and we can build apps. So let's scroll down and we can, for example, use one of the featured apps and let's look at Good Eats to get restaurant recommendations based on what we like. So we have to provide a location, for example, Las Vegas, Nevada, a cuisine American, and a meal dinner. And all these are inputs that users provide. So if you look at the configuration, there's a widget title called cuisine, a placeholder, which if you remove the American text is going to ask what kind of cuisine would you like, and then a default value if need be. So if I just remove this, it says what kind of cuisine would you like? So I'll say American Burgers. And the meal type we want is dinner, location is Las Vegas, Nevada. And here if we run this, so we do a Command + Enter to play the app, you need to log in after this. So after logging in, we are going to press play and it's going to generate a restaurant and generate a restaurant guide. So as you can see here, we get, here are some great recommendations for American burger restaurants in Las Vegas, Nevada for dinner. And we get different answers right here. And then restaurant guide we get, I'd be happy to share more details about the things I've provided you for. So if we have a look at these two things, which are the output of my AI apps, and you click on Show Configuration, you can see that it's using a model. So now we're generating something. So we're using a model and then the prompt is a prompt template. So it says recommend a great restaurant in location and you see it highlights the inputs on the top left for cuisine and for meal. And so this is a template made from user inputs. And if you look at restaurant guide, again we have, tell me more about the restaurants I recommended and it's going to use the output of this widget to feed into that widget. So this is very handy, and if you want to play, you could have your apps, you can generate your own app, you can use Gen AI to actually say, "I want to generate an app which gives recipe ideas based on the ingredients as well as a possible image of the recipe." We generate this and automatically, PartyRock is going to try to be smart and find out the types of widgets we need and how these widgets are linked together. And so here we go. So now the app has been created, so we have the ingredients and we need to enter the ingredients separated by a comma. Then we'll get a recipe idea and then we'll get a recipe image. So for example, say we want tomato, cucumber, raclette cheese to go crazy, and olives. And then we're going to play. It's going to generate a recipe and then it's going to generate an image directly from one of these recipes, which is really cool. And again, if you look at this, you see that it's using the model Stable Diffusion XL to generate our image. And, you know, generative AI is a little bit crazy, but, of course, here we have cucumbers, olives, some onions as well I can see, and some cheese. So this is perfect and raclette cheese in the top left. Anyway, makes me very happy as a French person. So try it out. You can add widgets, they have different ones, user input, static text, document, and then what you want to generate, text, image, or chat bots. But hopefully it shows you what PartyRock is. It's a very good playground to do AI apps and it's a good way for you to, for AWS I guess, to get people to use Amazon Bedrock because it shows the potential of using Amazon Bedrock and Amazon Q. All right, that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 6 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*