<!-- Section 11 of 20 | Course: ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 11 OF 20: Compute, Container, and Customer Engagement Services You Should Know
**Course:** `ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional`

---
### Lecture: AWS App Runner

So now let's talk about the AWS App Runner service. It's a fully managed service that makes it easy to deploy web applications and APIs at scale and with this, anyone can deploy to AWS. You don't need to know anything about infrastructure, for containers or your source code or whatever you want. So the idea is that you start with your source code or a Docker container image and then you're going to configure the settings. So it shows how many VCPS you want, how much memory you want for your containers, if you want autoscaling and a few health checks. So some basic settings to define your web application or your API, and then automatically, that's it, it will start building and deploying the web app using the App Runner survey. So the container will be created and deployed, and then your API or your web app is deployed and you can access it right away using a URL and so, as you can see, there was no knowledge whatsoever of what goes on underneath. Underneath, of course, uses the AWS services, but as a user, you just don't know about it. So it's very quick. So with App Runner, you get a lot of goodness, you get automatic scaling, it's highly available, you get load balancing, you get encryption and your application, your container can also get access to your VPC. That means that you can connect to your databases, your cache, as well as your message queue services. So the use case for this is to very quickly deploy web apps, API, microservices, and do rapid production deployment with best practices, all using the AWS App Runner service. It's a very simple service. It does very simple things, but it's very powerful. Okay, that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS App Runner - Hands On

Okay, so I want to show you how AWS App Runner works but this is not part of the feature so if you do decide to follow along with me just know you're going to pay some money for vCPU and per gigabytes, okay? So let's go and create an App Runner service. So first we have to say the source of our deployment. Is it part of a Container Registry or is it part of a Source Code that we can connect, for example, from GitHub, okay? We are going to use a Container Registry. Now it can either be Amazon ECR, if it's an internal, private docker container that you have in your infrastructure or Amazon ECR Public if you wanted to deploy a public image, and we're going to do this. We're going to go into the Amazon ECR Public Gallery website, and I'm going to do HTTPD just to deploy a very simple HTP server to do basically nothing but show you how to deploy an HTTPD server. So I'm going to just copy this right now. Copy this address and paste it here. Okay. Next, what is the Deployment Setting? So whether or not we want to manually deploy our application or automatically. So if we were enabled with a Source Code Repo or Amazon ECR, we could do automatic but we are doing something manual right now, which is fine. So, let's click on next. Then I'll call it DemoHTTP. We choose how many vCPUs we want and how much memory we want. So one vCPU and two gigabytes is fine. This is the lowest I can get. We can pass environment verbals. We can configure the port of our service. So if we go in here and we have a look at the documentation, we can probably find that the ports of it is port 80 of our image. So we are going to use port 80 and then pretty quick, because you don't need to know why exactly, but here we go. So it's port 80, then do we want to configure Auto Scaling? So do we want to have the default configuration from one instance to 25 instances and what is the concurrency? So with this scaling, we'll have 100 request concurrent request, per instance, which is great. Or you can use your custom configuration or add a new one. Okay. Then you can do health checks. So do you wanna perform health checks on your application to make sure it's healthy? So we can leave this as is. Security if you want your containers to have an instance role. Networking, if you wanted to deploy into your Custom VPC, but for now, we'll use a public access type of access, and do we want tracing with AWS X-ray. So for now I'll keep everything as default and press next. So we verify the settings. So we use a public HTTPD image, and then the port is on port 80. So this is pretty simple because we just specified one container, and then we just click on create and deploy, and behind the scenes App Runner is actually going to deploy an auto-scaling group. It's going to deploy scaling triggers. It's going to deploy most likely like target containers. It's going to deploy a load balancer. It's going to give us a domain and so on. So it's quite handy, and from this one interface, I can get access to my logs, my activity, my metrics, my observability, my configuration, as well as connect any custom domain. So it's very powerful, all-in-one service to deploy containers in a production fashion on AWS, and I really like it. So I took a bit of time, but my service is now created, and if I click on this I'm able to access my default domain, and it just says it works, which is the message that is displayed when you have deployed HTTPD correctly. So that's good news. It works, and if you have a look at it we can look at the event log into where to see if everything was being deployed, the health checks and so on, and that's about it. It's as simple as that, and if we were to have a lot of concurrent requests on this website then automatically it would scale, which is quite nice. So that's it really, I find App Runner incredibly easy to use. So now we can just delete this application just type delete and we're done. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EC2

And on EC2, in which we will create our first website on AWS. So what is Amazon EC2? Well, EC2 is one of the most popular of AWS offering. It is definitely used everywhere. And what is it? Well, it stands for Elastic Compute Cloud, and this is the way to do Infrastructure as a Service on AWS. So EC2 is not just one service. It's composed of many things at a high level. So you can rent virtual machines on EC2. They're called EC2 instances. You can store data on virtual drives or EBS volumes. You can distribute load across machines, elastic load balancer. You can scale services using an auto-scaling group or ASG. And all these things, do not worry, we will see in depth during this course. Knowing how to use EC2 in AWS is fundamental to understand how the cloud works, because as I said from before, the cloud is to be able to rent those compute whenever you need, on demand. And EC2 is just that. So EC2, what can we choose for our instances, so our virtual servers that we rent from AWS? So what operating system can we choose for our EC2 instances? Three options, Linux, and is going to be the most popular, Windows, or even macOS. How much compute power and cores you want on this virtual machine, so how much CPU. Then you need to choose how much random access memory, or RAM, you want, and how much storage space. So, for example, do you want storage that's going to be attached through the network, and we'll see about it with EBS or EFS. Or do you want it to be hardware attached? In this case, it will be an EC2 instance store. And we have a whole section on storage, so don't worry about it. And then finally, the type of network you want attached to your EC2 instance. So do you want a network card that's going to be fast? What kind of public IP do you want? And finally, we need to handle the firewall rules of our EC2 instance, and that is the security group. And I lied, finally, finally, there's the bootstrap script to configure the instance at first launch, which is called the EC2 User Data. So we have lots and lots of options, and as you'll see in the hands-on, even more options at other certification levels that you need to know in EC2 instances. But at a core of it, what you need to remember is that you can choose pretty much how you want your visual machine to be, and you can rent it from AWS, and that is the power of the cloud. You can do this by just in the blink of an eye, really. So it is possible to bootstrap our instances using the EC2 User Data script. So what does bootstrapping mean? Well, bootstrapping means launching commands when the machine starts. So that script is only run once, and when it first starts, and then we'll never be run again. So the EC2 User Data has a very specific purpose. It is to automate boot tasks, hence the name bootstrapping. So what tasks do you wanna automate usually when you boot your instance? Well, you want to install updates, install software, download common files from the internet, or anything you can think of, really, anything you can think of. So it could be whatever you want, but just know that the more you add into your User Data Script, the more your instance has to do at boot time. Simple, right? By the way, the EC2 User Data Scripts runs with the root user, so any command you have will have the sudo rights, okay? So this was a short introduction to EC2. Don't worry, it's gonna get very, very practical very soon. I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EC2 - Hands On

Welcome, so in this lecture, we are going to launch our first E2 instance running Amazon Linux. So for this, we'll be launching our first EC2 instance which is, well, a visual server, and we'll use the console for this. We'll get a high level approach to all the various parameters you have when launching an EC2 instance, and you'll see there are many, but we'll learn the most important ones. And then we will launch a web server directly on the EC2 instance. Using a piece of code, we will pass to the EC2 instance. That is called the user data. Finally, we'll learn how to start, stop, and terminate our instance. So let's get started and launch our first EC2 instance. For this, I'm gonna go into the EC2 console, then I will click on instances and then click on launch instances. So in there, I'm able to launch my first EC2 instance, and to do so, I need to add a name and tags. So the name is going to be My First Instance and that is the name tag, and if you wanted to add additional tags to tag your instance differently, then you could click there, but you don't need to click on this. Using just name as My First Instance is good enough. Next, you need to choose a base image for your EC2 instance. This is the operating system of your instance. As you can see, there's a full catalog that you can search from, but we're going to use the ones from the quick start that are very, very helpful. And the one we'll be using is the Amazon Linux, which is provided by AWS. So in it, I will choose the Amazon Linux 2 AMI. And as you can see, that one is free tier eligible, so we'll just leave it as is. So this gives me Amazon Linux 2, and the architecture I will choose is 64 bit x86. So everything left pretty much as the defaults. And we'll see in this section, and moreover in the other ones, that you can create your own AMIs and you can found them in here. Okay, but currently, we're just going to use the ones provided by AWS as quick start. Next, we need to choose an instant type. And so instant types are going to differ based on the number of CPUs they have, the amount of memory they have, and how much they cost. As you can see right now, I have a T2 micro selected. This one is free tier eligible, so it will be free to launch one of them during an entire month if we leave it running, so this is what we'll be using. But in here, you could scroll down and look at other types of instances. For example, T1 micro is also free tier eligible, but that's older generation. And as you can see, you have a bunch of instances right here available to you. Some of them are going to be free tier eligible, some of them will not, and by default, the one that's gonna be free tier eligible is a T2 micro, so we'll be using that one a lot. If you wanted to compare the instance types, you will just click on that link, and it shows you all the type of instances in here as well as how much memory they have and so on. So right now, we'll be using a T2 micro. Okay. Next, a key pair to log into your instance. So this is necessary if we use the SSH utility to access our instance, and we will be using the SSH utility in this course, therefore it is required for us to create a key pair. So as we can see right now, there is no key pair, and we could proceed without a key pair, but for now we won't do this. So let's go ahead and create a new key pair. And the name is going to be EC2 Tutorial. Then you need to choose a key pair type, so we'll be using the RSA encrypted. Okay, this is good. And then the key pair formats. So, if you have Mac or Linux or Windows 10, then you can use the .pem format. If you have Windows less than version 10, for example, Windows 7 or Windows 8, then you can do a little shortcut and directly use a PPK which is going to be used for PuTTY, and PuTTY is how you do SSH on Windows 7 and Windows 8. So remember, anything else but Windows 7 and Windows 8, choose .pem, else, use PPK. Okay, that should be clear enough. I'm going to create this key pair and it is downloaded for me directly. So now it is selected automatically here. Next we have to go into network settings, so for now, I will not touch anything. My instance is going to get an public IP, and then we need to connect to our instance. And so for this, there is going to be a security group attached to our instance which is going to control the traffic from and to our instance, and therefore we can add rules. And the first security group created will be called launch-wizard-1, so created by the console directly, and we can define multiple rules. So the first rule we want to have is to allow SSH traffic from anywhere. So we leave it at this, and this will create a rule in our security group to allow SSH traffic, but we also want to allow HTTP traffic from the internet. So I will take that box, and this is because we're going to launch a web server on our EC2 instance, so we need it as well. As we're now going to use HTTPs for now, we don't need to tick the second box. Let's configure the storage so then we can compare the storage and as we can see, we have a eight gigabytes gp2 root volume that we will leave it as is, okay, because in the free tier, we can get up to 30 gigabytes of EBS General Purpose SSD storage, so this is good. And we only have one volume necessary. If you go into advanced, you could configure them and see a little bit more information, okay, and the one important thing to note in here is the delete on termination. By default, it is enabled to yes, I just did advanced to show you that one detail, okay? That means that once we terminate our EC2 instance, then that volume is also going to be deleted. Okay, so we leave everything as is, and we'll get back into the simple mode. Okay. Next for advanced details, this is where it gets interesting. So I will skip spot, I will skip IAM instance profile. Don't worry, I will go over them once we need to explore them. I will skip all of that, so let's scroll down, let's scroll down, let's scroll down all the way to the bottom, and at the bottom, there is user data. User data is when we pass a script, so some comments, to our EC2 instance to execute on the first launch of our E2 instance and only the first launch. And therefore, on the first launch, we want to be able to pass these commands right here. So for this, you go into your code, you go to the EC2 fundamentals, and then the ec2-user-data.sh file, you copy entirely this, so all of it, and then you paste it here. So you paste everything, and that means that this script is going to be executed when the instance is first started and only once, okay, in the whole life cycle of the instance. And what it's going to do is that it's going to update a few things, then install the HTPD web server on the machine, and then write a file, an HTML file, that will be a web server. And so you don't need to know code or know these commands, okay? This is provided to you to illustrate a few things on this lecture. So finally, for summary, we want to start one instance, this is great, and we can review everything we have here. It all looks good. We are very happy, and as you can see in the free tier, we get a first year of 750 hours of t2 micro which is reading it, running it for one month, so that's every month. And if you don't have a t2 micro in your region, then it's going to be a t3 micro, okay? And then also we get 30 gigabytes of EBS storage and so on. So let's launch this instance and the instance is going to be launched. Let's go to view all instances, refresh, and now my instance is in pending state. So it's gonna take about 10, 15 seconds for the instance to come up, and this is the whole power of the Cloud. Thanks to the Cloud, I am able to create an instance or 100 of them very quickly in less than 10 seconds without me owning any single server. So that is extremely powerful, and we just scratched the surface of the power of the Cloud, obviously, because the course is just getting started, but you can get a feeling of the advances and the speed we can have on the Cloud thanks to this. So as you can see now, my instance is running, and right now I wanna show you a few things, okay? The first one is that the instance name is my first instance and there's an instance ID which is just a unique identifier for my instance. There is a public IPv4 address, this is what we're going to use to access our EC2 instance, or there is a private IPv4 address which is how to access that instance internally on the AWS network, which is private. The instance state is running, and we get some information around host name, private DNS, which instance that we have, so t2 micro, as well as, if you scroll down, the AMI we're using, which is Amazon Linux 2, and the key pair we're using, which is EC2 Tutorial, okay? So you can have a look at a few details in here. You have more information, for example, on security. We get some information on the security group which was created called launch-wizard-1 with these in the rules. So port 22 accessible from everywhere and port 80 accessible from everywhere, so you should have something similar. Okay, if you don't, start over because you probably missed a step. And the add on rule allowing all communication outwards, which allows the instance to access the internet. For storage, we saw that, yes, we created one volume of a gigabyte, so we're good to go. So now let's have a look at the web server running on my instance. And for this, you go on public IPv4 address, you copy this or you click on open address and as you can see, it doesn't work. Or if you click on it, copy, and then paste it, you press enter, it's going to work. So it depends on the web browsers you have and so on, okay, but the reason it doesn't work here is that in the URL, you need to make sure that you're using the HTTP protocol. So HTTP colon slash slash and then the IP, because if you use HTTPs, this is not going to work, it's going to give you an infinite loading screen which was happening right here. So please make sure to use HTTP colon slash slash and then the IP address and you're going to get this screen. And in programming, when you do something for the first time, usually say hello world. So this web server is selling hello world from and this IP right here, which is not the public IP. This IP right here, 172-31-33-135 actually correspond to the private IPv4 address, so this is something that I program myself. So we use the public IP address to access it, but we have the private IP address in here, and we have the hello world. And if you go too fast, you're going to get no messages. So if you go too fast, just wait five minutes, get back to it, refresh this page, and you'll see it. Okay, so cool, we have a web server running, this is great. Now let's explore a few options. So we have an EC2 instance and it's running, but if we don't need it, we can go to instance state and then click on stop instance. And in the Cloud, you can start and stop instances just as you wish, and why would you stop an instance? Well, the longer you leave it running, the more you're going to pay, of course. But if you decide to stop an instance, then AWS will not bill you for it. The instance state is kept because you have a volume attached to it, but at least you're not paying for it. So we can see right now while the instance is in a stopping state, and if we try to refresh this page is going to, of course, it's not going to work because, well, you don't have the server running anymore. So you can see it gets to some like infinite loading experience, okay? So my instance is now stopped, and if I wanted to, actually, I could get rid of it. And in the Cloud, it's very common to start instances and then get rid of them very quickly just to try it out because this is the Cloud and we can do whatever we want. So, we can do instance state, and then terminate instance. If we do so, we're going to get a warning message and don't click on terminate because I want to keep this instance with me, okay? But this is how we would get rid of it. So I cancel this, but what I'm going to do now is I'm going to start my instance again. So I go to instance state and then start instance. And now as you can see the state is pending, so it is getting started, and I just wait for it to be started in the green state and I will show you something very interesting. Okay, so my instance is now running. And if I go here and stop the refresh and try again to refresh, as you can see, it still goes into an infinite loop. Well, you may say, well, the server is running, Stefan, so why is it not displaying the message now? It is displaying here, but like from the old one, of course. So here, the IP start with 54, right? But here, if you click on here, now the public IP start with 3.250. So the public IP actually has changed, so if you stop an instance and then you start it later on, then AWS will maybe change its public IPv4. So therefore, you need to copy the new IPv4, make sure to use HTTP, and voila, we have access back to our EC2 instance. But one thing that has not changed is the private IPv4, the private IP will always stay the same, but the public IPv4 may change, okay? So, well, so that's it for this hands on. We have seen quite a lot of things. We've launched our first EC2 instance, which is very exciting, our first web server in the Cloud. We've had to look at some of the power of the Cloud. You're just using some API calls to stop an instance, start instance, and so on. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon ECS

Okay, so now let's talk about Amazon ECS, and we're gonna get an overview into all different aspects of it. So the first thing I wanna talk to you about is the EC2 Launch Type. So ECS stands for Elastic Container Service. And when you launch Docker Containers on AWS, you are launching what's called an ECS Task on ECS Cluster. And an ECS Cluster is made of things. And with the EC2 Launch Type, well these things are EC2 instances. And in that case, if you use an ECS Cluster with an EC2 Launch Type you must provision and maintain the infrastructure yourself. So that means that your Amazon ECS/ ECS Cluster is going to be composed of multiple EC2 instances. Now, these instances are a little bit special because each of them must run the ECS Agent, and then this Agent is going to register each, EC2 Instance into the Amazon ECS service and the specified ECS Cluster. Now, once you have that in place then when you start ECS tasks then AWS is going to be starting or stopping the containers. That means that whenever we have a new Docker container it's going to be placed accordingly on each EC2 Instance over time as you can see right here. And you can start or stop the ECS task, and it will be placed automatically. So that's the EC2 Launch Type, and Docker containers are placed on Amazon EC2 instances that we provision in advance, okay? Now, there's a second launch type called the Fargate Launch Type. And again, you launch Docker containers on AWS but this time you do not provision the infrastructure so there are no EC2 instances to manage it. It's all serverless. Well, because we don't manage servers but there of course, there are servers behind. So, in the Fargate type, if we have an ECS Cluster we just create task definition to define our ECS tasks. And then AWS will run these ECS tasks for us based on how many CPU and RAM we need. So when we want to run a new Docker container, simple as that, it's going to be run, without us knowing where it's run and without an EC2 Instance to be created in the backend in our accounts for it to work. So it's a little bit magic. And then to scale, well you just need to increase the number of tasks. Simple, you don't need to manage any more EC2 instances. And the exam loves to go and tell you to use Fargate because Fargate is serverless, and it's way easier to manage than the EC2 Launch Type. Okay, so we've seen the two launch types for Amazon ECS. Now let's talk about the IAM Roles for ECS tasks. So let's take an example of the EC2 Launch Type in which we have an EC2 Instance running the ECS Agent on Docker. So in this case, we can create an EC2 Instance Profile which is only valued of course if you use EC2 Launch Type. And it's going to be used by the ECS Agents only, and then the ECS Agent will use the EC2 Instance Profile, to make API calls to the ECS service to restore the instance, is going to make API calls to CloudWatch Logs to send container logs. It's going to use the API calls to ECR, to pull Docker images from ECR and also reference sensitive data in Secrets Manager or the SSM Parameter Store. And then our ECS tasks are going to get ECS Task Roles. And so this is valued for both EC2 Launch Type and Fargate. And so here I have two tasks. And we can create a specific role per task. So my first Task A will have an ECS Task A Role, and the first Task B and second Task B is going to have the Task B Role. Well, why do we have different roles? Because each role allows you to be linked to different ECS services. And so, for example, the ECS Task A Role allows you to have your Task A, runs some API calls against Amazon S3. Whereas Task B Role allows you to run, again API calls against DynamoDB. And you define the Task Role in the task definition of your ECS service. So remember this, the distinction between EC2 Instance Profile Role and the ECS Task Role. Next, Load Balancer Integrations. So in example, I'm in the EC2 Launch Type but it could be Fargate as well, of course, and have multiple ECS Tasks running. It's all in the ECS Cluster. And we want to expose these tasks as a HTP or HTTPS endpoint. Therefore we can run an Application Load Balancer in front of it and then our users will be going to the ALB and in the back end to the ECS tasks directly. So in that case the ALB is supported and will support most use cases, and that's a good choice. The Network Load Balancer is recommended only if you have very high throughput or high performance use cases, or as you learn later on in this course, if you use it with AWS Private Link. Or, if you want to use the older generation Classic Load Balancer you can, but it's definitely not recommended because you don't get any advanced features and you cannot link your Elastic Load Balancer to Fargate. Whereas if you're using the Application Load Balancer then it works of course, with Fargate. So what about data persistent on Amazon ECS? For this you need Data Volume, and they're different kinds but one of them is noticeable and that's EFS. So say you have an ECS cluster, and in this case are represented both the EC2 Instance as well as the Fargate Launch Type for my ECS Cluster. And we want to mount a file system onto the ECS task to share some data. In that case, we use an Amazon EFS file system, because it's a network file system is going to be compatible with both EC2 and the Fargate launch types. And it allows us to mount the file system directly onto our ECS tasks. Why? Well then tasks running in any AZ linked to this Amazon EFS file system will share the same data, and therefore can communicate with another via the file system if they wanted to. So the ultimate combo, is to use Fargate to launch ECS task in the serverless fashion and Amazon EFS for file system persistent, because EFS again is also serverless, we don't manage any servers, it's pay as you go. It's just provisioned in advance and you're good to go. So the use cases of using EFS with ECS is to do persistent multi-AZ shared storage for your containers.

---

### Lecture: Creating ECS Cluster - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon ECS, and we're going to create our first cluster. So on the left-hand side, let's click on Clusters, and then click on Create cluster. So the cluster name can be whatever you want. For example, DemoCluster. And then under Infrastructure, we have the way to select how to obtain capacity. So now we have several options. And the options is Fargate only. This is serverless. You don't think about servers, and AWS will provide them for you. You have Fargate and Manage Instances, and Fargate and Self-managed instances. So this is the old way in which you manage your EC2 instances, and you have to create an auto-scaling group, and then you have to select the type of AMI that you want, the type of EC2 instance you want, and so on. It's nice to see these options, but we're not going to go over this because now AWS is trying to move you away from self-managed instances. Fargate and Managed Instances is very similar in which we're also going to have Fargate, but also AWS is going to manage our EC2 instances behind the scenes. And here what we have to do is to create an instance profile. So you can click on Create new instance profile right here. And then this is for ECS. And this is for EC2 Role for ECS Managed Instances. And we click on Next. And then this is called ecsInstanceRole. And click on Create role. So my role already exists, so I'm going to just use this role right here, and I'm good to go. And then for infrastructure role, I'm going to create a new infrastructure role. I scroll down. You use this one, Infrastructure for ECS Managed Instances. Next. This is a new role, so I'm going to create this role. And now my role is created. So back at it, I can just put it right here. And we are good to go. Next, we have the instant selection. So do we want to have the ECS default to choose based on the test definition and service requirements? And for a production workload, this is definitely necessary. Or do you want to use custom? And here you would choose between the vCPU attribute and the memory, say how much min and max you want. So this is more advanced. And also, if you wanted to force, for example, a specific instance type, you would say Allowed instance type. And you would say, for example, only t3.micro. That's it. And then you would only have t3.micro as part of these managed instances. So it's quite nice because AWS is going to manage these instances for you. And then you can go and click on Create. Now, to be compatible with the next lectures that I've done, but they're very similar things, instead of managing our instances, we'll have self-managed instances. Here we're going to create a new auto-scaling group of on-demand. We specify the instance type to be t3.micro. And then we'll use the default role for the EC2 instance role. We say a maximum 2. No need for SSH. We specify the min root EBS volume size of 30 gigabytes. And then we leave everything for network settings as defaults, and then click on Create. So while this is happening, let's have a look at the auto-scaling group that is being created on AWS. And then on the left-hand side, I will click on Auto Scaling Groups right here. And it's showing, as you can see, there was an auto-scaling group created for me called Infra-ECS-Cluster. And these are capacity 0, min capacity 0, max capacity 5. And this was created directly by my ECS cluster. And the creation is in progress. And what this cluster has, we'll have maybe EC2 instances for me to launch tasks on. So we can see it's in three available two zones. So we know that the ECS tasks are going to be launched across three AZ. And what I'm going to do now is just wait for this cluster to be created, which is the case now. So what I can do now is explore this DemoCluster. So if I click on it, I'm in the DemoCluster, and I can go to Services, are 0, tasks are 0 because we haven't launched anything yet. And then we go to the more interesting, Infrastructure. So if you go here to the Infrastructure, we have three capacity providers in this ECS cluster. The first one is FARGATE. That means that we can launch Fargate task onto our ECS cluster. The second one is FARGATE_SPOT. That means that we can launch Fargate task in Spot mode, select Spot instances for EC2. And the last one is a ASG provider. And this one means that we can launch EC2 instances in this cluster directly through this ASG. So it's managed scaling right now, and the current size is 0. But I can change it if I wanted to. So let me show you what it would look like. I go here, I go to Details, and I would edit the desired capacity to be 1, just to show you what it's like. So what's going to happen out of this is that an EC2 instance is going to be created, okay? And when is created is going to register itself into the DemoCluster. And then I will see it under Container instances. That means that when we create an ECS task, it can either be launched on a Fargate or Fargate Spot capacity provider, or it can be launched on the container instances that I will have launched as part of this ASG. So what I'm going to do now is just wait for this instance to be in the running state and registered into my ECS cluster. So let me refresh now. My instance is in service, and it's t2.micro. And if I go back into my Amazon ECS cluster, it is registered as a container instance that is currently, of course, running 0 tasks, and has 1024 CPU available, and 982 memory available. So this is giving me the capacity of this instance, and I can launch, as you'll see, tasks on it until the capacity runs out. So, we're good to go. So we have an ECS cluster. We've seen two capacity providers. Three. We've seen the container instances. So now let's go ahead and do run our first service. And I will see you in the next lecture to do that.

---

### Lecture: Creating ECS Service - Hands On

So now let's create an ECS service. But before we do so, we need to create a task definition. So I'm going to create a new task definition from the task definition panels, and I need to give it a name. So I'll call this nginxdemos-hello. And this is coming from this docker image called nginxdemohello on docker hub. And so this is the one we're going to be using in our demo. So this is why I call my test definition nginxdemo with a hyen of hello. Okay, next we need to choose the infrastructure requirements. So do we want to launch on Fargate or Amazon EC2 instances. Well, Fargate is serverless compute, so we'll leave it enabled. And if we enable this, we could launch this task, this service on our Amazon EC2 instances. But for simplicity's sake, right now I'm just going to use AWS Fargate and launch our containers in two serverless compute mode. Then we need to choose what type of OS and architecture we have. So Linux is fine. And what is the task size for our Fargate container? So we can say for example, that we have 0.5 or one vCPU, and you can go up to 16 vCPU in this example. And then you can also adjust memory. So you can say, hey, I want up to, for example, 120 gigabytes of memory. So all of this would be provided by Fargate in a serverless fashion. To keep things very cheap and simple, I will choose 0.5 vCPU, and one gigabytes. Next we have task role. So task roll is an IM role that we can assign to our task if we wanted to make API request to AWS services. But because we don't do this right now, we are not going to specify a task role. But this is something of utmost importance if your containers need to use AWS. Now for the task execution role, leave it as default and if this ECS task execution role is not created yet, it's going to be created automatically by ECS service. So we're good. Next our container. So the name is going to be nginxdemos-hello. And the image URL is going to be nginxdemoshello/hello. And this is going to pull automatically this image from the docker hub right here. So this is very handy and it's an essential container. Now we have lots of different options. For example, the port mappings. So we want to map the port 80 to the port 80 of the container, which is great, and we'll leave it as is. And then you could add more port mappings if you wanted to. You could for example, set the resource allocation limits, the environment variables from file or manually and the logging. But all these things I'm gonna leave as default because this is going to work fine for us. Storage, Fargate comes with some ephemeral storage. So we'll leave it as is again, from 21 gigabytes, which is a default right here. And this is fine, just leave the value you have right now. So let's create this. And this is creating our first task definition. Now you see version two for me because I've just created it twice. But for you, you should see version one. So next, let's launch this task definition as a survey. So let's go into clusters and then demo cluster. And under services, I'm going to create a service. Okay, so I should specify the details of the service. So first we're going to select a task definition family. We'll choose the nginxdemoshello. Then you choose whatever task definition revision is available for you. I choose the latest, which is number two for me. And then service name, you can keep this or you can remove this, whatever you want. Okay, so now the service name is going to be created on this cluster. We need to choose the compute configuration. So we'll use capacity provider strategy, we'll leave it as default, and then we'll use Fargate to launch our own services and tasks. Okay, platform version will leave it as latest as well. We don't touch any of these. For the deployment configuration, which is replica. So we'll have a number of tasks across our cluster. And right now we want one task. But if you wanted more tasks, for example, select four, and you would have four containers of your nginxdemo available to you. But we wanna keep it small to keep the cost at a minimum. Okay, so we leave everything as is for AZ rebalancing. This is an ECS feature to rebalance in case you have too many tasks in one specific AZ. We don't touch any of the deployment options or this. For networking we're gonna go in here, we're good with these subnets, we're going to create a new security group. I can keep this name, this is fine. And then we're going to allow HTP traffic from anywhere. This allows us to access the port80 of our nginx service. Okay, next we'll use public IP turn on, yes, perfect. And then for load balancing, we're going to allow load balancing. To have a load balancer we have an application load balancer. It's going to be connected to our port80 of our nginx demo. We're going to create it, I'll call it DemoALBForECS. Listener on port 80, And then we're going to create a new target group, nginxdemosTG. On port 80, we're good to go. And then we will not touch the VPC lattice. We will not touch the service auto scaling since we wanna scale up and down based on the CloudWatch alarm. We will not set up any volume. We'll just go ahead and create this service. So our service has now been deployed successfully. So let's click on the service and have a look at it. So as we can see right now we have one desired task and one is running and the status is active. So this is really good. And we can see that the service is linked to a target group. So I click on the target group, and in the target group itself, we can see that it's linked to our demoALB, which is the application balancer that was created as part of this service. And it looks like one IP address is registered as a target. And this is the IP address of my container, which is very good. So now if we have a look at this load balancer itself, it is active, I can copy the DNS name and then open a new tab and paste it. And I get the nginx welcome page, which is very good. So that means that everything is working. The server address is the exact same as the IP we have registered in here. So this is the private IP, which is good. And what else? So if we go under the service itself, now we can have a look at tasks. So as you can see, one container is running right now, and this is this one task. And I can click on it and have a look at this task itself. So it tells me the configuration, the task revision, where it's been launched, the private IP, the containers. We can have a look at logs to know the logs of our nginx container as well, which is good. And if we look at the service itself, so we are on the service, and then we go to events, we can have a look at what were the events of this. So that means that we have one task that has been started. It was registered in Atari group, and then it's been complete deployment, and now we have a steady state. So as we can see in this, I can go to slash test for example, and the URI will change in here. So nginx is working as expected. Now what we can do, because we're under ECS, is that we have a look at our task. We have one of them, but we can launch some more. So I will show you how easy it is to launch more tasks with Farget. So let's update this service. And now the desired number of task is going to be three. So one per AZ, for example, and the rest I will just leave as is. So we'll leave the test definition to the same. We'll leave the compute configuration as Fargate and load balancing does not change in terms of health checks and so on. So let's just click on updates. And now what's going to happen is that we have asked the ECS service to run two more tasks. So if I refresh this and wait a little bit, now we have two more tasks being provisioned and they are provisioned on the Fargate engine. So that means that behind the scenes, AWS is going to provision automatically the resource that it needs to launch these tasks. So let's wait a little bit. They're pending. Now they're activating, and now they're running. So this was very quick actually. And if I go under here and now refresh this page, as you can see, the IP address is changing every time I refresh. So the application balancer is distributing the load between all my containers on ECS, which is great. So this is quite powerful, and we just demonstrated the scaling of ECS while scaling up. And just to scale back the demo and save on cost, we can update the service here and have the desired number of tasks to be zero. This way the service is still there, but we don't have any containers running. And under my application my auto scaling group, sorry, then I'm going to click on this and make sure the desired capacity is also zero. This way we are sure not to be running any type of instances on our EC2 cluster for ECS. Okay? So now you can verify this, that the tasks are gone and you're good to go. And you can look at the events to see what has ECS done while we were asking it to update the service. Okay? So that's it. We've seen how to create an ECS cluster, we've seen how to create an ECS service on Fargate. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EKS

So let's talk about the other way to run containers onto AWS, and this is using Amazon EKS. So Amazon EKS stands for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service. So it is a way, as the name indicates, to launch and manage Kubernetes cluster onto AWS. So what is Kubernetes? Well, this is the blue logo you see in the top right corner of the screen. Kubernetes is an open-source system for automatic deployments, scaling and management of containerized, usually Docker, applications. So it is an alternative to ECS, which has a similar goal which is to run your containers, but a very different API. The idea is that ECS is definitely not open-source. Whereas Kubernetes is open-source and used by many different cloud providers which gives you some sort of standardization. So EKS supports two launch modes, again the EC2 launch mode if you want to deploy worker mode like EC2 instances, or the Fargate mode if you wanted to deploy serverless containers in an EKS cluster. So the use case for using EKS is that your company is already using Kubernetes on-premises, or already using Kubernetes in another cloud, or they just want use the Kubernetes API, and they want to use AWS to manage the Kubernetes cluster, then they would use Amazon EKS. So again, Kubernetes from an exam perspective, is cloud agnostic, it can be used into any cloud such as Azure, Google Cloud and so on. And so that means that if you are trying to migrate between clouds or your containers, using Amazon EKS may be a much more simple solution. So in terms of diagram, this is what it looks like. So we have a VPC, 3 AZ separated into public subnets and private subnets. And so you would create EKS Worker Nodes they would be EC2 instances for example, and each of these nodes will be running EKS Pods. So they're very similar to ECS tasks, but from a naming perspective, anytime you see pods, it relates to Amazon Kubernetes, okay? So we have EKS Pods and they're running onto EKS Nodes, and so these nodes can be managed by an Auto Scaling group. Now, very similarly to ECS, if you wanted to expose EKS Service and Kubernetes Service, we could set up a private load balancer, or a public load balancer to talk to the web. So let's summarize the different node types that exist for Amazon EKS. So you have the Manage Node Groups, and this is AWS that will create and manage Nodes, so EC2 instances for you. And these nodes are part of an Auto Scaling group, managed by the EKS service itself. And you have support for On-Demand and Spot Instances. You can also choose if you wanted to, to self-manage nodes, this is if you want to have more customizations and more control. So in that case you need to create the nodes yourself, and then you need to register them to an EKS cluster, and then you manage your own nodes as part of an ASG. You can still use the pre-built Amazon EKS Optimized AMI for this, which saves you a bit of time, or you can build your own AMI, which is more complicated. This supports as well, the On-Demand and the Spot Instances. And finally, if you don't wanna see any nodes at all, then Amazon EKS, as I told you, supports the Fargate mode in which there is no maintenance required, and no nodes are managed at all you can just run containers on top of Amazon EKS. Now you can attach data volumes to your Amazon EKS cluster. For this, you need to specify a StorageClass manifest on your EKS cluster, and this leverages something called the Container Storage Interface, CSI compliant driver. So keywords to look out for at the exam. And you have support for Amazon EBS, you have support for Amazon EFS, and this is the only type of storage class that works with Fargate. You have Amazon FSx for Lustre and Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP. So that's it for Amazon EKS. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EKS - Hands On

So I wanna show you a quick hands on for Amazon EKS but this is completely out of the feature. So if you do decide to do it it's going to cost you quite a bit of money. So I just suggest you just watch what I'm doing just to understand a bit better the Kubernetes per service from AWS. So we are going to create a new cluster on AWS. So I use demo EKS as a name. I can select a Kubernetes version. I will use the default and then we need to have a service role to manage everything. So to create this role I need to follow the instructions from the EKS user guide. So I go to IAM and then I will have to create a role for EKS. And then I will need to add the EKS cluster role. So let's do this. We're going to go to roles. Create a role. This is for a service. This is for the EKS service. Here we go. And we'll do EKS cluster to allow access to other services that are operated by our cluster. So here we go. We're good. Next. Then the permission is selected already and the role name is EKS cluster role. Let's create this role. Invalid name, so let's just remove the first space in the beginning. And now the role is being created. Okay, so let's refresh this and we can find this role right here. Now, do we want to encrypt our secrets with KMS? For now I'm not going to do it, but this is a possibility for security. Then where do you want to deploy our clusters? So we have a VPC and subnet. So this is so we are, we are highly available. Then security groups we want out of this. So we could select, for example, the default security group. And then we choose the IPv4 type of services. Then the cluster endpoint access is going to be public so that we can access it from our computer. Do we want any networking add-ons? So we'll just choose the default again and the default for proxy and DNS. So as you can see, these are like a lot of configuration and EKS should be its own course. To be honest, I just want to run through you the options so you can understand what's happening. Then we can configure logging for the control plane. I'm not going to do it. And then we review the settings. So we have set up security groups, networking, cluster, API access to public, and we are good to go. So let's create this. And what this is going to do is that it's going to create the cluster itself and then we'll have to create the nodes for the cluster. So my cluster is now created. And the next step is to provision compute capacity for your cluster, by adding a managed node group or creating your fargate profile. So we've seen this in the overview and that's just what I wanted to show you. So if we go into the resources, this is where all your Kubernetes resources are going to be managed. And this is some Kubernetes specific knowledge, okay? But this is where you have it for the Kubernetes experts. Then in compute, this is where we can add node groups. So if I go into node groups, I can add node group here. I call this one demo node group. You would need to create an IAM role for this node group. So we go into the IAM console... And then we create a new role. And this role are, is for the EC2 instances that are part of my manage node group. So I will just use EC2 and then I will search for policies. I will type EKS and you want an Amazon EKS worker node policy added in it. So let's click on next. And for this, I will enter and it's somewhere in documentation. So I will enter the... Amazon EKS node role and actually there's add permissions for this. And then we need to also add the Amazon EC2 container registry read only policy in this. So let's go back. In here, we're going to edit permissions and add one more thing. The Amazon EC2 container registry. So let's look for this. Here we go. It's here, next. And we're good to go. Let's create this role. So just make sure it doesn't start with the space. Here we go. The role is created... and now I'm able to go in here refresh this, and I will find the Amazon EKS node role. Great. Then do we want to have a launch template for our EC2 instances? We can specify one but I will leave this unticked and then click on next. What type of node group do we want? So Amazon Linux 2 is great. Do we want on-demand or spot instances? What type of instances do we want? So we want T3 medium? T3 micro? Whatever you want. What is the disc size? What is the node scaling configuration? So how many nodes in your node groups do you want? So this is the settings for the OS scaling group. And then what is the node group update? So when you do update how many nodes can you tolerate to be done? So click on next. What subnets do you want access to? And then when we're good to go we create this managed node group. And so to show you this this is the way to deploy EC2 instances for your Amazon EKS cluster, but they are entirely managed by AWS, which is, makes it very easy. And the other way to create nodes in here. So, we go one level up, we go back into computes. The other way to create nodes, except from this node group is actually to have fargates and fargates allows you not to provision EC2 instances. And so we would have with a setup to go and add a target profile. Now we're not going do this. I just want to show you the options for node groups for fargate profiles. Actually don't need this one. So I'll delete it when it's finished creating. And the last option I wanna show you is around add-ons. So if we wanted to actually use EBS volumes we can install add-ons. And one of them is the Amazon EBS CSI driver. And this will allow us to leverage EBS for our Amazon EKS cluster and they will be STS side driver also for EFS X, EFS, and so on. Okay. So this is all the actions, I am gonna show you. Kubernetes requires its own knowledge to be honest, and it's very very difficult and requires a full course on it. So what I'm going to do now is just go ahead and delete this cluster. So for this I'll just type demo EKS, and this will be it all I wanted to show you was how to create an EKS cluster and to delete the first need to delete the note groups. I will skip that from the video. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Lex + Connect

So now let's discuss Amazon Lex and Connect. So Amazon Lex is the same technology that powers the Alexa devices by Amazon. And if you don't know Alexa, Alexa is like a little device that you have in your home and you say, "Alexa, what's the weather like tomorrow?" And it will reply, "The weather is good, it'll be 24 degrees and it'll be sunny." So, the idea is that with Amazon Lex, you get automatic speech recognition, so ASR, that allows you to convert speech, so spoken words, into text. There's also a very good thing because Lex understands the intent of text, callers by doing natural language understanding, so it understands sentences. And Amazon Lex is a technology that will help you build chatbots or call center bots. And talking about call centers, how do we build a call center? We have Amazon Connect. So Amazon Connect is a visual contact center that allows you to receive calls, create contact flows, and it's all cloud-based. And it can integrate with other customer relationship system, management systems, so CRMs or AWS services. And the cool thing about Amazon Connect versus traditional offering is that there is no upfront payment. It's about 80% cheaper than traditional contact center solutions. So the whole flow of building a smart contact center is that you will have, for example, a phone call to schedule an appointment that is made into a number that is defined by Amazon Connect. So they call Amazon Connect. Lex is streaming all the information from this call and understand the intent of the phone call, and therefore, it will invoke the right lender function. And that lender function, for example, can be very smart and say, "Hey, someone has said to schedule a meeting tomorrow with Tom at 3:00 PM." Okay, I will go into my CRM and schedule that meeting by writing some code. So this is the whole idea behind Lex and Connect. So remember Lex is for ASR and Connect is for contact centers. So that's it. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 11 of 20 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*