<!-- Section 9 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 9 OF 13: Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) with AWS
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  MLOps

While we've touched on some aspects of machine learning operations or MLOps for short, along the way we'll go into more depth. In this section, I'm going to go pretty deep on the inner workings of SageMaker and how you can integrate your own containers into it. We'll also talk about the management of the often large resources SageMaker needs for training and for inference, and the choices you can make to optimize the usage of those resources. Then Stefan will be back in this section as well, covering some of the ops related AWS services that are in scope for this exam x, ECR, x CloudFormation, CDK, EventBridge, step functions and more. These details are important for the exam, so do pay attention to this section. Let's dive in.

---

### Lecture: Deployment Guardrails and Shadow Tests

There are a few newer features in SageMaker for deployment safeguards, making sure that when you roll out a new model, bad things don't happen. Or if they do happen, you catch them quickly. One is called deployment guardrails, and this can be deployed either to asynchronous or real time inference endpoints. I know we haven't talked about asynchronous endpoints yet, but they are what they sound like. They're just an endpoint that gives back an asynchronous response. So they're not waiting for a response to come back. It just says, hey, here's a request. Give me the answer whenever you can. Right. The idea here is with deployment guardrails, is that you can control the shifting of traffic to a new model so you don't just deploy it and hope for the best. It allows you to do something called blue green deployments. And the idea is that your previous model is running on the blue fleet, and your new model is running on the Green fleet. There are three different modes of doing this. One is called All at Once, where you shift everything over to the Green Fleet. You monitor it for a while automatically, and if things look okay, only then will the Blue fleet be terminated. There's also Canary mode, where we only shift over a small portion of the traffic to the Green Fleet, and we monitor that for a while. Again, if that canary looks okay, then we shift everything over and then terminate the previous blue fleet running the previous model. There's also linear mode, where we shift traffic in linearly spaced steps. So you can have as many steps as you want to slowly shift traffic over time to the new model and keep an eye on it as you go. So if you're worried about scaling or the ability of the new model to handle the traffic that you're giving it, that's a good way to monitor things in a controlled fashion as you slowly ramp up traffic to the new model. And it supports automatic rollbacks. So if things do go wrong, it can automatically roll back to the blue fleet to the previous model that you know at least was working. Another feature is called shadow tests, and this allows you to compare the performance of what they call a shadow variant to production. Very similar idea here, where the shadow variant is taking a percentage of the traffic and you monitor its performance. In this case you're taking a look at it manually. You're monitoring the performance of the shadow variant in the SageMaker console, and you decide when to promote it to production.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker's Inner Details and Production Variants

Let's dive into the final domain of the exam machine learning, implementation and operations. And we'll start off by talking about more depth on how SageMaker interacts with Docker containers. This is a big part of this domain. This is actually going to be kind of a short domain in this course, because we've covered a lot of this as we've gone. So it's kind of hard to talk about all the different models that come with SageMaker without talking at least a little bit about how to deploy them and choose the right instances for them and so forth. So in reality, you already know a lot of the implementation and operations domain of the exam. We're just going to sort of fill in the blanks of stuff that we haven't covered already, which is why this section is rather short. But that's good news. You're almost done guys. Anyway, let's talk a little bit more about Docker and how that interacts with SageMaker. So we talked about this at a high level earlier on. Basically every machine learning model and deployment within SageMaker needs to be hosted inside of a Docker container that is registered with ECR. Now, that can include any number of things. We could have a pre-built deep learning model that's sitting in a Docker container. We can have a pre-built scikit learn or spark ML model that's sitting in a Docker container. We can have our own pre-built code built on top of TensorFlow or MXNet or Chainer or PyTorch. These are all supported frameworks that you can just build a Docker container from, and just have it work within SageMaker pretty much automatically. So as we'll see in an example later on, you can actually write a little snippet of TensorFlow code and very easily package that up into a model with SageMaker. One thing that's worth mentioning here, though, is that TensorFlow does not get distributed across multiple machines automatically. So if you do need to distribute that training across multiple machines that might have multiple GPUs, there's a couple of ways to do that. One is using a framework called Horovod or something called parameter servers. So these are little bits of trivia and important words that you might want to remember. Hint, hint. Anyway, Horovod is a way of actually distributing TensorFlow across a fleet. And finally, you can also develop your own training or inference code from scratch. Or you can take a pre-built image from one of the pre-built algorithms for SageMaker and extend that and build upon it, and make your own Docker image based on top of that. So this gives you a really flexible model, because all SageMaker expects is a Docker image that conforms to some specifications about where its model code is and how it's called. And it can be anything. Right. So any script you can dream up written in any runtime or any language that you want, as long as it's in a Docker container and things are in the right place, it can work with SageMaker. These containers are all isolated and contain all of their dependencies and resources within them. So you can really use any sort of technology you want within SageMaker. As long as it's wrapped up in a Docker container, it's really cool stuff. Let's make another pretty picture. We looked at something similar to this earlier, but it's worth reviewing again. So again, a Docker container is created from a Docker image and an image is built from a docker file. So the Docker file says how do I put this thing together? That resulting image that includes all of your code and resources and whatnot, gets saved into a repository. And in the example of using SageMaker, that should be Amazon's Elastic Container Registry or Amazon ECR. So again let's review this diagram over here. So we have Docker images that I've prepared ahead of time in Amazon ECR. These can include both inferences and training models. It will pluck out that training model from ECR and use that Docker container for training. Pulling in training data from S3. Those training jobs are all run after deploying those Docker images and allowing you to access that S3 training data. The resulting trained models are then stored into S3 again, and that S3 model artifact is then made accessible to the inference code in the model deployment stage. So again, we have a Docker container that contains our inference code that can consume that stored model artifacts to actually generate inferences in real time. That model is deployed to a fleet of servers, and there are endpoints that will actually expose that for runtime usage from your outside application or what have you. The actual structure of a training container for your training model looks like this. And this is worth remembering guys. So basically everything lives under a slash opt slash ML directory within your container. Your input should contain your configuration, your hyperparameters and resource configuration files, as well as any data which might include channels where that input data is coming from. The actual code is worth calling out. There's a code subdirectory that should contain the script files that actually run your training code itself. So the Python script or whatever it is that actually does your training should be deployed to opt ML code. Okay. Remember that. And finally the output goes to an output directory. Any failure or error messages are expected to go into there. The model directory is used for deployment as we'll see here. So the deployment container should contain an opt ML model directory. And that's where the files associated with your deployment your inference code should live. Pretty simple stuff. At a higher level, the entire Docker image would look like this. So basically you have a working directory that contains Nginx.conf predictor.py. Also a server directory that contains the deployment stuff. The train subdirectory contains all the training image code stuff and there's also a wsgi.py file. Um, okay. Let's go into more details about what these all are. So nginx.conf that's a configuration file for the nginx front end. So basically we're going to be running a web server at deployment time. And that's how we configure that web server. predictor.py. That's the program that implements a flask web server. That's the program that actually implements a flask web server for making those predictions at runtime. You're going to need to customize that code to actually perform predictions for your application in whatever way it works. Uh, the server directory, that program in there will be started when the container is started for hosting, that file just launches the Gunicorn server, which runs multiple instances of a flask application that is defined in your predictor.py script. The training directory contains the program that's invoked when you run the container for training. So to implement your own training algorithm, you would modify the program that lives in there. Again, the structure of that training directory is something we covered earlier when we talked about the structure of your training image. Finally, wsgi.py is just a small wrapper that's used to invoke your flask application for serving results. Now you can have separate training and inference images if you want to, or you can combine them together into this structure. Either way works. So to put it all together, your Docker file might look something like this. So we start off with from TensorFlow. TensorFlow. Well whatever it says that's just going to download the TensorFlow library used to run the Python script. So basically we're saying this depends on TensorFlow. We're going to use the TensorFlow stuff to actually run this code. Pip install SageMaker containers like we talked about before. That actually includes the common functionality necessary to create a container that's compatible with Amazon On SageMaker, and the copy command here is copying the script to do our training into the spot where it's expected to be. Like we talked about earlier, that training code needs to reside within opt ML code directory. So that's just making sure that our training script is copied into the spot where SageMaker expects it to be. And finally, we can define environment variables. And one of them would be env SageMaker underscore program that allows you to define the specific script that actually runs the training. So Train.py defines that as the name of the Entrypoint script that is located in the opt ML code folder for that container. That's the only environmental variable that you must specify when you're using your own container from scratch. But there are many other environment variables you might want to set as well. So in addition to SageMaker programs, some other ones worth looking at are training module and service module. That's basically where you're going to be loading up the TensorFlow or MXNet or whatever it is. Modules. There's also some Modeldir. That's where the model checkpoints are saved and pushed into S3. And then we have SM channels which can be SM channel, train test or validation. Those are basically where your train test and validation channels are coming from and what it expects to see there. And Https stands for hyperparameters. So that's how you can define the different hyperparameters that are exposed by your algorithm, which in turn can be used by automatic model tuning in SageMaker. And there are many more too. But you won't need that much detail for the exam. A little bit of a code snippet of what it might look like to actually use your own image. It's very straightforward. You would CD into the docker file. This could all be done like within a notebook. Even call out to Docker, tell it to build that docker file to whatever name you want to call it, and then the code to actually invoke it would be, you know, just from SageMaker estimator, import estimator that would invoke an estimator with an image name of whatever you specified. So when I built that Docker image above, you see there that I called it foo. So here I'm referring to image name foo to say I want to go load up the docker image with this name foo, and use that as a estimator within SageMaker. I can then call fit on that estimator to actually do the training, and we're done. So it's just that simple. There's a lot more detail in the SageMaker Developer Guide if you want to dig into it more, but you probably don't need a whole lot more for the exam. Also, I want to talk about production variance. This is an important concept. So you can actually test out multiple models in SageMaker on live traffic using production variants. So there's a concept where you can have like different versions of your model. Let's say you want to like try them out on real traffic and see how they do. Not all models can really be evaluated offline effectively. Recommender systems come to mind, for example, where accuracy on people's past behavior isn't always a good indication of their performance on future unseen behavior. So if you want to roll out a new model and test it out without taking a whole lot of risk, you could use a production variant to actually separate those two models and run them in parallel for a while to measure how they perform against each other. So there's something called variant weights. This tells SageMaker how to distribute traffic among your different production variants. So for example, I might have a new iteration of my model and I could roll it out initially at a 10% variant weight. That would mean that I would be sending 90% of my traffic to the existing model, and 10% to the new model, and I can just start ramping that up, like increase that 10% over time. Once I gain more and more confident in its performance. And eventually, once I'm sure that this new variant is actually doing better than the older one, I could ramp it up to 100% and then discard the older production variant. So this allows you to do a B tests and to validate performance in a real world setting. Again, offline validation isn't always useful, and it's always risky to launch a new, uh, to launch new code in general. Right. So this gives you a controlled way of rolling out a new model. And if it doesn't work out well, some unforeseen problem comes out. You can very quickly roll back to the other previous model just by changing those variant weights at runtime

---

### Lecture: SageMaker On the Edge  SageMaker Neo and IoT Greengrass

Next, let's talk about living on the edge with SageMaker on the edge and how that works. By the edge, we mean actually deploying your SageMaker models, your trained models out to the edge devices. So maybe you have an embedded computer within your self-driving car that you want to deploy things to. Maybe you have a smart camera, like an AWS deep lens that you want to deploy your trained model to things like that. Neo is a way to compile your inference code to edge devices and make them optimized for different devices that might be embedded somewhere, so you can train once and run anywhere. As the promise of SageMaker neo, it supports multiple architectures for edge devices, including ARM, Intel, and Nvidia processors. They're all in the space of building little specialized, deep learning enabled edge devices. And again, you can embed that in whatever device you can imagine, like your car. So you don't necessarily have to be running this inference in the cloud and going over the internet. You could actually deploy this stuff to run locally within the machine that it is. So in applications where you care a lot about latency, like for example, a self-driving car, you don't want to be waiting, you know, several hundred milliseconds to get a response back from the internet somewhere to decide whether or not to slam on the brakes. Right. That needs to happen immediately. So you want that logic of that trained model sitting within the car itself. And neo is a way to compile that code into a format that can actually be run within that embedded device. That's what neo is all about. Um, how do you remember this? Well, again, I'm not sure if this is a cultural reference that holds up around the world, but neo was a character in the movie The Matrix, and The matrix is built around this premise that the world is a simulation. It's all just a computer simulation, and code is surrounding you everywhere. So everything is code. So the metaphor there is that SageMaker neo is deploying the code of your trained machine learning model to the edge devices that are surrounding you in day to day life. Okay. Anyway, it can take any code that you've written in TensorFlow, MXNet, PyTorch, Onnx, or XGBoost and optimize that to the specific devices. And you know, that opens up a whole lot of possibilities, right? It's actually pretty amazing that you can just take arbitrary TensorFlow or MXNet code and recompile that toward these different architectures, and it just works. And XGBoost, if you don't want to be dealing with neural networks necessarily, that's, you know, probably the hottest algorithm out there right now for doing machine learning outside of the world of deep learning. So very good variety of technologies available for you there. Neo consists of both a compiler and a runtime library. So the compiler is what recompiles that code into the bytecode expected by those edge processors. And obviously there's a runtime component as well that runs on those edge edge devices to consume that neo generated code. Neo pairs well with AWS IoT Greengrass. So remember, the exam is really all about putting these components together in interesting ways, right? So Neo and Greengrass like peas in a pod, basically. So you can take a neo compiled model and you could just deploy that to an Https endpoint. So I could host a neo compiled model on a C5, M5, m4, P3, or P2 instance, but it has to be the same instance type that I use to compile that. I mean, obviously if I'm using neo to compile my model to a specific device, I need to make sure that I'm hosting on that same kind of device. right? But that kind of defeats the purpose of neo, right? If I just want to host it on an endpoint on some sort of a web server, some service somewhere, why not just, you know, do that in whatever language I started with? So it gets interesting when you pair a neo with IoT Greengrass. Greengrass is the mechanism whereby you actually deploy code to an edge device. So that's how I'm actually going to get my train model to an actual edge device using inference at the edge, using local data, using a model that was trained in the cloud. So I train my model in the cloud on SageMaker using training instances, but then I compile it with neo and deploy it to my actual edge devices using IoT. Greengrass. Greengrass uses Lambda functions extensively for inference applications. So again, you might see neo, IoT, Greengrass, and Lambda used together in a whole entire system. So that's how it all fits together. Basically. Again, neo compiles your model, your trained model into specific architectures that might be deployed to the edge. IoT Greengrass is what gets it there.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Resource Management  Instance Types and Spot Training

Let's delve into the world of resource management with SageMaker, making sure that you're using just the right amount of computing power for your given algorithms. So when it comes to choosing an instance type for a given machine learning problem, we talked about this a lot back in the modeling section because it kind of made sense to cover it all together for each individual algorithm there. Technically though, that is an operations concern. But because we spent so much time on that under modeling, that's why this particular operations section of the course is kind of short. We've already talked about a lot of it already. However, there are some general tips and tricks here that you can apply. Generally speaking, if you have an algorithm that relies on deep learning, that will pretty much always benefit from GPU instance types. And these days that would either be a P3 or most likely a G4, an instance type for training purposes. However, inference is usually less demanding, and you can often get away with something a little bit more lightweight there and cheaper, like a compute instance or a C5. Is the the going one. Right now these days, and sometimes the general purpose ones, like an M5, are a good fit for training. If you have an algorithm that is not a deep learning instance, right? So if you have some algorithm that cannot be accelerated on a GPU, usually you're going to be going toward a M5 or something like that. GPU instances can be really pricey, so only use them when they make sense. However, it still might be more cost effective to have a single machine with multiple GPUs than many CPU instances that could do the same amount of work. So even though an individual GPU instance may cost more, you're going to get more mileage out of it. Let's also talk about managed spot training. One cool thing you can do to reduce your costs is using EC2 spot instances for your training, and this can actually save up to 90% over using on demand instances. So if you really care about saving money and you have a very large and expensive training job, maybe you're a training a machine translation model, for example, that can be a very expensive thing to do. You could use spot instances to do that training and save a lot of money potentially. The catch, of course there is a catch is that your spot instances can be interrupted at any time, so you need to make sure you're using checkpoints to S3 so that your training can pick up where it left off in case you're training. Instances are in fact interrupted in that case. So that does make things a little bit more complicated, but it can save a lot of money. So it could be time well spent for particularly involved training jobs. And also this can come at the cost of increasing your training time as well. So if you need to wait for a spot instance to become available and that could be a very long wait, right? You have to sit around and wait for that resource to become available before your training can actually commence. But if what you care about the most is saving money, this can be a way to save a lot of money at the expense of using a little bit more complexity and setting up S3 checkpoints, and at the expense of time, because you have to wait for those resources for those spot instances to become available. Aethes.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Resource Management  Automatic Scaling

And also you can use automatic scaling. This is really cool. So within SageMaker, when you're deploying stuff to production, deploying your inference model, you can set up a scaling policy and define target metrics that you care about the minimum and maximum capacity that you want to allocate to this service, cool down periods and things like that, and it will automatically add more or fewer inference nodes to your deployment as needed. So obviously that can save a lot of money too. It works alongside CloudWatch to monitor the performance of your inference nodes and scale them as needed. It will dynamically adjust the number of instances for a production variant based on that data. So it's not just looking at the entire model as a whole. It's looking at individual production variants. So as you're changing the amount of traffic that goes to different production variants at runtime, it will work alongside that information and make sure that it's actually scaling up each variant accordingly. Now, one good best practice here is to load test your configuration before you actually use it. So you want to make sure that whatever scaling policy you set up actually works the way you expect. Otherwise, very bad things could happen. If you don't get that scaling policy right, You could end up not having enough capacity or having way more than you need. So you want to make sure that it's working good in a test environment before you actually deploy automatic scaling into production. One last note surrounding resource usage is the use of availability zones in SageMaker. It's good to know that SageMaker will automatically attempt to distribute your instances across different availability zones for better resiliency, but obviously you're going to need more than one instance for that to work, so I can't distribute your inference across multiple availability zones if I only have one instance to work with. That's a good reason to deploy multiple instances for every production endpoint, even if maybe you only need one of them by having more than one instance, I can spread that out and make your application as a whole much more resilient to failure. And also, you should make sure that your VPC, if you're using any custom VPCs with SageMaker, they should be configured with at least two subnets, each of them in a different availability zone. So that way we can make sure that things are being deployed across different availability zones. So if there's a catastrophic failure in one place, your application will keep on running regardless.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker  Deploying Models for Inference

So once you've got a model trained and you're happy with it, you need to deploy it, right? So you need to get this model out there on inference endpoints that you can hit from your application to make predictions, whether it's real time or batch or whatever. So a model is no good until it's out into production, right? So how do I do that? Well, there's a few ways to go about deploying a model to production for actual inference by the real world and by inference, by the way, we just mean making predictions, using that model to make predictions for new data that we haven't seen before. The easiest way is using SageMaker Jumpstart. And by using Jumpstart, you can just say, hey, I want to use this model, go do it for me. And it gives you this template, this notebook that does it all. So it has a way of deploying pre-trained models that might be useful for common use cases, and it can deploy those to pre-configured endpoints for that model. So if you don't want to think about it too much, you can just use Jumpstart. If you have a common use case that's already been solved, and use that to just do it all for you. You just run it and off it goes. And you have your pre-trained model deployed to endpoints so you can hit for inference from whatever you want. Another way that's a little bit more complex would be using the model builder from the SageMaker Python SDK. So if you want a little bit more control over how that deployment works, then you can configure your deployment settings from code using the model builder from the SageMaker Python SDK. And if you want even more robust control, you can use AWS CloudFormation. So if you're more advanced user and you need more consistent and repeatable deployments, maybe this is part of a larger CI CD system. CloudFormation can be a tool for managing that and one little snippet of extra information there. The actual name of the resource you would use for SageMaker with CloudFormation would be AWS SageMaker model. To specify a model that you want to host at a given SageMaker endpoint. Few more things about inference and some of the choices you might make. This is definitely the sort of thing that the exam loves to test you on. So one type of inference is real time inference. So this is often the case. You know, you have some sort of an external application that says hey, for example maybe I got this new person applying for a credit card. These are the properties of that person. Is this likely fraudulent or not? So that would be an example of real time inference where I have an interactive workload with very low latency requirements. So I want to say, hey, I've got this new data I've never seen before. I need an answer right now for this one thing, and I need it fast. So that's an example of real time inference. You can also use Amazon SageMaker serverless inference to do that. So if you don't want to deal with the infrastructure that's actually running those servers that provide those predictions, there is serverless inference available that will manage that for you. And that's going to be a good choice if your workload has a lot of idle time. So if there are periods of time where you have no traffic and you want to save money during that idle time, serverless can save you some money. In that instance, uh, if your traffic is more even and steady over time, it might not save you anything, right? But if you have idle periods or uneven traffic, serverless might be the way to go. You also need to be able to tolerate cold starts. So if you do have an idle period and your serverless instance says I'm going to go to sleep for a while. When it comes back to life, when it hits a new request, it might take a little bit longer than you'd like. So if you have very strict latency requirements, serverless might not be the best choice. Now, in addition to real time, you can also have asynchronous inference. So this gives you fast latency but with a catch right. So let's say you have a very large payload size. You want to make a prediction. But you have like up to a gigabyte of information that's going to be used to make that prediction. And that large amount of data means that it also requires long processing times. So in that case, asynchronous inference might be the choice that allows you to provide that data very quickly. And it will just say, okay, I'm going to go to on that for a while and process that request asynchronously and then give you back the result when it's ready later on. So technically that gives you near real time latency, because you can very quickly give it the data and it will very quickly give you that data back once it's ready. The catch there is once it's ready. So there's two steps to that process. You say, here's my data, I want a prediction sometime in the future and asynchronously will give you back that prediction whenever it's ready. So that's going to be appropriate for interactive workloads, but where it might take a while to generate that result and you don't want your application sitting there blocking waiting for an answer. Also, there are auto scaling capabilities with SageMaker inference, so you can use that to dynamically adjust your computing resources for endpoints based on traffic. So not quite serverless, but it's managing some of that for you. So if you do get a sudden surge in traffic, you don't necessarily need to be woken up in the middle of the night to go add more servers to your inference fleet. Auto scaling can handle that for you automatically. So kind of a middle ground between managed and unmanaged there. And finally we should mention the use of SageMaker neo. So neo can automatically optimize your models for specific environments. So for example, if you're deploying to AWS inferentia chips which are optimized for inference, running SageMaker neo on your model might be a way to make it perform even better. So remember, SageMaker neo is an important tool in your tool chest for making your inference even faster.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Serverless Inference and Inference Recommender

Taking automatic scaling to the next level, we have serverless inference. Another new feature in SageMaker as of 2022, sort of the trend in AWS is to go serverless wherever possible, it seems, and this is yet another step in that direction. So the idea here is you just specify your container that container's memory requirements and its concurrency requirements, and you let AWS worry about the actual amount of hardware you need to make that happen. So the underlying capacity for your inference is automatically provisioned and scaled. And this is great if you don't really know what your traffic's going to be. So if you have infrequent traffic to your inference model or unpredictable traffic, you can count on this to automatically scale your capacity down to zero when there's no requests coming in for actually doing inference requests, which is cool, right? So they just charge you based on usage. You know, the more traffic is, the more traffic you get, the more you'll pay automatically, and the least traffic you get, the less you'll pay. So it's a great way of optimizing your costs as well. It lets you monitor it through CloudWatch So there are a few, uh, metrics of note there. A model setup time will tell you how long it actually took to deploy your new inference models there, as it was being automatically scaled up or down. And you can also take a look at the invocations and the invocations that had errors in them and the memory utilization over time. So you can see if your requirements about the memory requirements for the containers and for concurrency were accurate or not. That's one way you can mess this up. But assuming that you give serverless inference good information about your containers and how they perform, it will automatically add and remove instances under the hood to handle the traffic that you're throwing at it. So pretty cool. New feature in Amazon SageMaker serverless inference. Another new feature is Amazon SageMaker Inference Recommender. So if you do want to go and deploy your own inference instance types, this will at least give you some guidance on what types to use. So don't think of it as a recommender system. The terminology here is a little bit confusing. It's actually just recommending what instance types to use and what configuration to use for your models on serving that to the public. So it will automate your load testing and your model tuning for you, and you can have it deploy automatically to an optimal inference endpoint type just by the results of those tests. The way it works, you just register your SageMaker model to the model registry. It will then benchmark different endpoint configurations against it. So we'll try a bunch of different stuff and see what works. It will allow you to collect and visualize those metrics, and let you decide on what instance types work best for your model. So you can see here on the right a little example of the output of that. For here we're getting back a specific set of recommendations for a ML C5 Xlarge instance type. And you can see what the cost per hour was, the cost per inference, and the latency. So you can decide what's important to you and optimize for cost or latency or what have you. So there's a couple of different modes that can run in. One is instance recommendations, where it just runs those load tests on the recommended instance types. And that takes about 45 minutes. So if you want a quick answer for what might be the best instance type for you, that's the way to go You can also do custom load tests. They call that endpoint recommendations. Foundations, and in that case, you explicitly specify the instance types that you want to test, the traffic patterns that you expect and your requirements for latency and throughput. And that takes longer. That takes about two hours. So if you want more specific results that are tailored to your specific SLAs, that might be a more efficient way of getting there, as opposed to just looking at the the results on a whole variety of instance types through instance recommendations and trying to make sense of that yourself. So two different modes there, instance recommendations and endpoint recommendations. The way to remember the endpoint recommendations are the customized load test, where you're giving it specific requirements that it needs to adhere to. But that's SageMaker inference Recommender, basically a tool for deciding what kind of instance types to use for your inference endpoints and yet another way of doing it right. So we've seen inference recommender for setting it up by hand. We've seen serverless inference if you don't want to think about it at all. And also automatic scaling sort of in between there. So different ways of handling deploying capacity for your inference endpoints.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Inference Pipelines

And let's talk about inference pipelines again. This is the sort of thing where you just have to understand what it is and what it does for the purpose of the exam. So we've talked about deploying a Docker image to an inference node. Right. So by default you're just going to take a prepackaged image from Docker that's in ECR. And use that to work with your trained model to do inferences at runtime. However, you can also use more than one container and string them together using inference pipelines. So you can have any combination of pre-trained built in algorithms or your own algorithms that are hosted in Docker containers and hook them all together. And you can have a linear sequence of between 2 and 15 of these containers that work together in concert. So you can imagine combining your pre-processing, your predictions and post-processing of those predictions, all in different containers that are chained together in an inference pipeline. You can also use containers from spark ML or from scikit learn as part of that pipeline as well with spark ML. You can run that with glue or EMR, and those spark ML containers will be serialized into Emnlp format, which is just a little piece of trivia for you there. And you can use that for both handling real time inference and for doing batch transforms. So your inference pipelines can be applied to either mode. We've not talked a lot about batch transforms. We seem to be focusing on real time inference because that's the more complicated case. But inference pipelines can work with either usage mode. If you're doing real time inference through a web service or batch transforms of large amounts of data that you want to make inferences from all at once. And that's inference pipelines in a nutshell. It's just a way of chaining together multiple inference containers into one pipeline of results.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Model Monitor

I'm also going to spend a little bit more time on SageMaker model monitor. Although this is also a relatively new feature, it is starting to show up in the exam already. The idea here is to get alerts automatically on quality deviations on your deployed models. So once you deploy a model, you don't want to just let it run forever without anybody watching it. Things can drift over time and biases can creep in, and the quality can degrade as the properties of your training data or your real world data coming in change over time. So this lets you keep an eye on it automatically. It works through CloudWatch so you can automatically get notifications once things change to some extent that warrants your attention. One thing it lets you do is visualize what we call data drift. So an example of data drift. Let's say again we're doing a loan model. And maybe it starts giving people more credit due to drifting or missing input features. So perhaps over time people's incomes are rising because of inflation. Or we're missing some data because people have stopped collecting it for whatever reason. So as your data that you're using to train the model changes, that's called data drift. And it allows you to visualize that over time and maybe even alert you if things start to change too much. Model monitor can also be used to detect anomalies and outliers. So if you're starting to see new anomalies and outliers in your data model, monitor can be set up to watch for that over time and alert you when it sees new things. It can also be used to alert you to new features showing up in your data as well that you didn't see before. So if you have more information coming in, maybe you want to take advantage of that, you know? Or maybe it's a new feature that's meant to replace an old one. That's an important thing to know about, right? So Model Monitor will tell you automatically if new features are coming in that you need to think about. And as with a lot of these newer SageMaker features, no code is needed. You can set this all up through SageMaker studio and a web based dashboard if you want to. We talked about Clarifai briefly before in the context of AutoML and SageMaker autopilot. SageMaker Model Monitor also integrates with Clarifai, and again, Clarifai is meant to detect potential bias. So Model Monitor can work with Clarifai to tell you when new biases seem to be emerging in your deployed model. For example, you might be seeing imbalances across different groups or ages or income brackets, and you might want to understand what's going on there. If there's a sudden change in what features are contributing the most to your predictions. Again, you want to keep the eye out for potential bias in your data that you need to address, because that might not be real. So with model monitor, you can monitor for bias and also be alerted to new potential bias through CloudWatch. As with most things, it integrates with CloudWatch and also it helps to explain the model behavior. Again, it will understand help you understand which features contributed the most to the predictions that you're making. So it's just giving you transparency on what's going on. And when integrated with Model Monitor, it can actually alert you when things change, when you start to see new biases emerging that weren't there before. Some more details on model Monitor. The data is stored in S3 and it can be secured there like you would with anything in S3. Through all of S3's usual security measures. You need to set up what's called a monitoring schedule to run these monitoring jobs over time, repeatedly. That's just another step in deploying them. And these metrics again are emitted to CloudWatch. So from there you can do whatever you want. You can use CloudWatch notifications to trigger alarms. And then when you get that alarm you can take corrective actions such as retraining the model or auditing the data to see what's going on. Model monitor also integrates with TensorBoard, QuickSight, and Tableau, or you can just visualize the results within SageMaker studio. The things you can monitor specifically are drifts in data quality and by data quality, we just mean the statistical properties of the features coming in. So you know, the mean, the standard deviation, the min, the max, things like that. And that's going to be relative to some baseline that you explicitly create. When you're creating your model monitor job. You can also create a baseline for model quality as opposed to data quality. So by model quality we mean things like accuracy RMSE, precision recall kind of depends on what you're trying to do, right. And as before you create a model quality baseline to measure things relative to, and it can alert you when things drift too far in terms of the quality of the predictions that you're making. You can also integrate the model quality monitor with ground truth labels, so you can actually see what humans are saying for classifications versus what your model is doing, and alert if that starts to diverge too much as well. It can also monitor bias drift like we talked about earlier using Clarifai. It will actually see if you're seeing new biases in your feature data. And it can also monitor feature attribution drift. So if we're seeing more drift in what features are attributed to your predictions, this is very similar to bias. It can alert you on that as well. This is more specific though. It's using a metric called normalized discounted cumulative Gain or Ndcg for short to compute feature attribution drift. And what that's going to do is compare the feature ranking of training versus live data. So it just looks at what features are the most important in a ranked order and sees how that's changing versus your between your training data and your live data that's coming in.

---

### Lecture: Model Monitor Data Capture

Quick slide here on model monitor data capture, which is a feature of SageMaker model monitor. What data capture does is, well, what it sounds like. It logs all the input to your endpoints and inference outputs. So if you want to log everything that's coming into your inference endpoints and log what comes out, it can deliver that to S3 as JSON data and store that for you for future use, whatever you want to do with it. So model monitor data capture does exactly what it says. It captures the data going in and out of your inference endpoints and stores that off somewhere. What can you use that for. So you might want to use that for further training. Maybe that's a good way to learn over time what new data is coming into your system from the real world and augmenting the training of your model from that data. So model monitor can be part of the whole feedback loop of feeding new information back into your model for continuous training. It can also be useful for debugging and monitoring purposes obviously as well. It can also automatically compare your metrics associated with the data that's being captured to some sort of a baseline. So if you want to say, hey, maybe things are going a little bit out of bounds here, things are getting unusual. It can give you that comparison metric to see how things are changing over time. Data capture is supported for both real time and batch model monitor modes, so whether it's a real time predictions or batch model predictions, you can capture that data either way with Model Monitor, and it is supported for both Python using the Boto library, and also with the SageMaker Python SDK. You also have the option to encrypt that data of course. So we're always thinking about security with Amazon. So there is an option in data capture to encrypt that inference data as well.

---

### Lecture: MLOps with SageMaker, Kubernetes, SageMaker Projects, and SageMaker Pipelines

The field of MLOps or machine learning operations really took off after the first iteration of the AWS certified machine learning exam came out. However, I expect the exam will catch up with this soon. MLOps has really taken off in the meantime and SageMaker has come up with a few answers to that problem. Basically, MLOps is how do I manage the larger pipeline, the workflow that surrounds the building and testing and deployment of my machine learning models. We've talked about some individual systems that handle that already within SageMaker, but sometimes people need to do something more complicated or have more direct control, or they might need to integrate with existing pipelines. One of those existing pipelines might be Kubernetes. So if you already have an existing Kubernetes-based machine learning infrastructure, you might want a way to integrate SageMaker into that. And then there's components for Kubeflow pipelines, Kubeflow being the Kubernetes answer for MLOps that allows you to define these pipelines of events that happen and can, for example, wrap the entire process of building and deploying and testing and tuning your models in an MLOps environment. This enables a hybrid machine learning workflow. So if you have an existing Kubernetes machine learning workflow that runs on-premises, this might be a way to integrate SageMaker into it gradually over time. So if you're not ready to go all in with SageMaker and you have an existing MLOps pipeline with Kubernetes, this offers a way to integrate the two and move over more slowly, right? So that's kind of the idea. Whether you're built on Kubernetes or Kubeflow, this offers a way to integrate existing platforms with SageMaker. And even if you might want to even keep it that way, right? So like sometimes you want to keep some stuff on-premises. Maybe you're processing some sensitive data that just can't go in the cloud. This would offer a way to integrate the two. Then we have SageMaker components for Kubeflow pipelines. Again, this is just integrating SageMaker with Kubeflow, MLOps solution under Kubernetes. And with SageMaker components for Kubeflow pipelines, there are separate components available for processing, like that might be wrapping a Spark container. There's a process for hyperparameter of tuning and hyperparameter optimization. There's a component for training in SageMaker and there's a component for inference, actually hosting your model in SageMaker as well. This can all be integrated into your Kubeflow pipeline by using SageMaker components. Now, what if you don't want to use Kubeflow or Kubernetes? So if you just want to like stick with SageMaker, you're starting from scratch, you're all in with SageMaker, right? Obviously there's a way to do MLOps without Kubernetes and just using SageMaker. That's what SageMaker projects are for. So this is SageMaker Studio's native machine learning operation solution with continuous integration and continuous deployment. It allows you to build these pipelines that will let you build images, prepare your data, do feature engineering, train your models, evaluate your models, deploy your models, monitor and update those models, whatever you need to do. You can create these complex workflows as part of a SageMaker project. Typically that will use a code repository of some sort integrated into your project that will be used for building and deploying your machine learning solutions. And it will use something called SageMaker pipelines that actually define those steps. So in this example here, you can see we set up a SageMaker pipeline that defines the process of processing your data, training your model, evaluating your model, and then registering it into a model registry for later deployment. And that model might get stored off into S3, for example. So two key terms here, SageMaker projects, that's basically MLOps for SageMaker, and SageMaker pipelines, that's the way to chain these different steps together within SageMaker. Taking a quick look at a larger example here of a SageMaker project, you can see you can do some pretty complicated stuff here. So you might have somebody committing changes to a model and that model building code might trigger an Amazon EventBridge notification. That in turn might kick off AWS code pipeline to actually build that model. And then code build would build and execute the actual SageMaker pipeline that we talked about in the previous slide. That SageMaker pipeline would then do its thing to process your data, train the model, evaluate the model and register it to the model registry. At that point, we might kick off another event to Amazon EventBridge, and that might in turn create, sit on top of another AWS code pipeline. This one intended to deploy the model. That could kick off a code build for CloudFormation to deploy your endpoint, which in turn could go off to AWS CloudFormation and actually kick off your SageMaker endpoint there for staging. It could then test that staging endpoint using code build. If that's approved manually, then CloudFormation could be told to deploy it to production again using SageMaker hosting. This is a more complex example of MLOps in general, and specifically what SageMaker projects can enable you to do.

---

### Lecture: What is Docker 

Hello, and welcome to this section on containers where we'll be talking about Docker, ECS and EKS. So what is Docker? Docker is a software development platform to deploy apps. The idea is that it's a container technology. So apps are going to be packaged into containers and these containers are sort of standardized. And so they can be run on any operating system. That means that your apps, once they're containerized they run the same way, regardless of where they run. It could be any machine. You don't have any compatibility issue. The behavior is predictable, which means that you have less work to do. It's easier to maintain and deploy and it should work with any kind of language any operating system and any technology. So the use cases for Docker are a microservice architecture. So this is a good keyword to have in mind. Lift and chip apps from on premises to the cloud. And anytime you wanna run a container, really. So how does Docker work on an operating system? Well, we have a server and in our case it may be EC2 Instances but it could be any kind of server and you're going to run a Docker agent. And then from there you can start Docker containers. And so your first Docker container may contain a Java application. And your second Docker container may contain a node JS application and Docker containers they can run multiple times the same. So you can have multiple Docker containers of the same Java application or multiple Docker containers of the same node JS application. You can also run databases within Docker, for example My SQL and so on. So Docker is very versatile. And from a server perspective all these things are Docker containers. So where do you store Docker images? Well you store them in something called a Docker Repository. Okay, we have multiple options. The first one is Docker Hub and so it's a public repository and you can find base images for many technologies or operating systems such as Ubuntu, MySQL and so on. It's very popular. And then for more private integration you have Amazon ECR, Amazon Elastic Container Registry and you can run your private images on there but there's also a public repository option available on ECR called the Amazon ECR Public Gallery. Now, how is Docker different from a virtual machine? Well, Docker is sort of a virtualization technology but not exactly, the purists will try to hit me if I say this, so the resources are shared with a host. That means that you can share many containers on one server. So if you look at the architecture for a VM, you have the infrastructure then you have the host operating system then you have a hypervisor and then you have your apps and your guest operating system. And so this is how, for example, EC2 works, for example, when you get an EC2 machine it is actually a virtual machine running on a hypervisor. And so this allows Amazon to offer many EC2 instances to many different type of customers and all these EC2 instances all these virtual machines are going to be separate. They're not going to share resources and they're going to be isolated, but for a Docker container you still have the infrastructure and the host OS which may be this time an EC2 instance then you have the Docker Daemon and then on top of it, you can have a lot of containers that can be lightweight running on top of the Docker Daemon. And this allows the containers to really cohabitate together. They can actually share networking share some data and so on. So it's a bit less quote unquote, secure as a virtual machine, but it allows you to run more containers on a single server. And this is why we really like Docker containers. So how do you get started with Docker? Well, first you have to write a Docker file, which is defining how your Docker container will look. So we have a base Docker image and we add some files and then we're going to build it. And this will become a Docker image. And that Docker image, you can store it on a Docker repository it's called a Push and you push it to either Docker hub which is a public repository, or Amazon is ECR which is Amazon's version of Docker repositories. Then you can pull back these images from these repositories and then you would run them. And when you run a Docker image it becomes a Docker container, which runs your code that you had built from your Docker build. That is the whole process with Docker. So how do you do Docker container management on AWS? Well, the first one is called Amazon ECS. It's Amazon Elastic Container Service. It's the own platform of Amazon for Docker management. We'll have a look at it in deep dive. Then we have Amazon EKS which is Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service which is Amazon's managed version of Kubernetes which is an open source project. We'll have a quick look at it. We have AWS Fargate which is Amazon's own serverless container platform. And Fargate works both with ECS and EKS and we'll do a deep dive of Fargate in this section. And then we have Amazon ECR used to store container images as I showed you from before. So we have an overview of how to do Docker and what is Docker and how to do Docker in AWS. Now let's do a deep dive onto Amazon ECS and the rest.

---

### Lecture: Amazon ECS

Okay, so now let's talk about Amazon ECS, and we're gonna get an overview into all different aspects of it. So the first thing I wanna talk to you about is the EC2 Launch Type. So ECS stands for Elastic Container Service. And when you launch Docker Containers on AWS, you are launching what's called an ECS Task on ECS Cluster. And an ECS Cluster is made of things. And with the EC2 Launch Type, well these things are EC2 instances. And in that case, if you use an ECS Cluster with an EC2 Launch Type you must provision and maintain the infrastructure yourself. So that means that your Amazon ECS/ ECS Cluster is going to be composed of multiple EC2 instances. Now, these instances are a little bit special because each of them must run the ECS Agent, and then this Agent is going to register each, EC2 Instance into the Amazon ECS service and the specified ECS Cluster. Now, once you have that in place then when you start ECS tasks then AWS is going to be starting or stopping the containers. That means that whenever we have a new Docker container it's going to be placed accordingly on each EC2 Instance over time as you can see right here. And you can start or stop the ECS task, and it will be placed automatically. So that's the EC2 Launch Type, and Docker containers are placed on Amazon EC2 instances that we provision in advance, okay? Now, there's a second launch type called the Fargate Launch Type. And again, you launch Docker containers on AWS but this time you do not provision the infrastructure so there are no EC2 instances to manage it. It's all serverless. Well, because we don't manage servers but there of course, there are servers behind. So, in the Fargate type, if we have an ECS Cluster we just create task definition to define our ECS tasks. And then AWS will run these ECS tasks for us based on how many CPU and RAM we need. So when we want to run a new Docker container, simple as that, it's going to be run, without us knowing where it's run and without an EC2 Instance to be created in the backend in our accounts for it to work. So it's a little bit magic. And then to scale, well you just need to increase the number of tasks. Simple, you don't need to manage any more EC2 instances. And the exam loves to go and tell you to use Fargate because Fargate is serverless, and it's way easier to manage than the EC2 Launch Type. Okay, so we've seen the two launch types for Amazon ECS. Now let's talk about the IAM Roles for ECS tasks. So let's take an example of the EC2 Launch Type in which we have an EC2 Instance running the ECS Agent on Docker. So in this case, we can create an EC2 Instance Profile which is only valued of course if you use EC2 Launch Type. And it's going to be used by the ECS Agents only, and then the ECS Agent will use the EC2 Instance Profile, to make API calls to the ECS service to restore the instance, is going to make API calls to CloudWatch Logs to send container logs. It's going to use the API calls to ECR, to pull Docker images from ECR and also reference sensitive data in Secrets Manager or the SSM Parameter Store. And then our ECS tasks are going to get ECS Task Roles. And so this is valued for both EC2 Launch Type and Fargate. And so here I have two tasks. And we can create a specific role per task. So my first Task A will have an ECS Task A Role, and the first Task B and second Task B is going to have the Task B Role. Well, why do we have different roles? Because each role allows you to be linked to different ECS services. And so, for example, the ECS Task A Role allows you to have your Task A, runs some API calls against Amazon S3. Whereas Task B Role allows you to run, again API calls against DynamoDB. And you define the Task Role in the task definition of your ECS service. So remember this, the distinction between EC2 Instance Profile Role and the ECS Task Role. Next, Load Balancer Integrations. So in example, I'm in the EC2 Launch Type but it could be Fargate as well, of course, and have multiple ECS Tasks running. It's all in the ECS Cluster. And we want to expose these tasks as a HTP or HTTPS endpoint. Therefore we can run an Application Load Balancer in front of it and then our users will be going to the ALB and in the back end to the ECS tasks directly. So in that case the ALB is supported and will support most use cases, and that's a good choice. The Network Load Balancer is recommended only if you have very high throughput or high performance use cases, or as you learn later on in this course, if you use it with AWS Private Link. Or, if you want to use the older generation Classic Load Balancer you can, but it's definitely not recommended because you don't get any advanced features and you cannot link your Elastic Load Balancer to Fargate. Whereas if you're using the Application Load Balancer then it works of course, with Fargate. So what about data persistent on Amazon ECS? For this you need Data Volume, and they're different kinds but one of them is noticeable and that's EFS. So say you have an ECS cluster, and in this case are represented both the EC2 Instance as well as the Fargate Launch Type for my ECS Cluster. And we want to mount a file system onto the ECS task to share some data. In that case, we use an Amazon EFS file system, because it's a network file system is going to be compatible with both EC2 and the Fargate launch types. And it allows us to mount the file system directly onto our ECS tasks. Why? Well then tasks running in any AZ linked to this Amazon EFS file system will share the same data, and therefore can communicate with another via the file system if they wanted to. So the ultimate combo, is to use Fargate to launch ECS task in the serverless fashion and Amazon EFS for file system persistent, because EFS again is also serverless, we don't manage any servers, it's pay as you go. It's just provisioned in advance and you're good to go. So the use cases of using EFS with ECS is to do persistent multi-AZ shared storage for your containers.

---

### Lecture: Amazon ECS - Create Cluster - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon ECS, and we're going to create our first cluster. So on the left-hand side, let's click on Clusters, and then click on Create cluster. So the cluster name can be whatever you want. For example, DemoCluster. And then under Infrastructure, we have the way to select how to obtain capacity. So now we have several options. And the options is Fargate only. This is serverless. You don't think about servers, and AWS will provide them for you. You have Fargate and Manage Instances, and Fargate and Self-managed instances. So this is the old way in which you manage your EC2 instances, and you have to create an auto-scaling group, and then you have to select the type of AMI that you want, the type of EC2 instance you want, and so on. It's nice to see these options, but we're not going to go over this because now AWS is trying to move you away from self-managed instances. Fargate and Managed Instances is very similar in which we're also going to have Fargate, but also AWS is going to manage our EC2 instances behind the scenes. And here what we have to do is to create an instance profile. So you can click on Create new instance profile right here. And then this is for ECS. And this is for EC2 Role for ECS Managed Instances. And we click on Next. And then this is called ecsInstanceRole. And click on Create role. So my role already exists, so I'm going to just use this role right here, and I'm good to go. And then for infrastructure role, I'm going to create a new infrastructure role. I scroll down. You use this one, Infrastructure for ECS Managed Instances. Next. This is a new role, so I'm going to create this role. And now my role is created. So back at it, I can just put it right here. And we are good to go. Next, we have the instant selection. So do we want to have the ECS default to choose based on the test definition and service requirements? And for a production workload, this is definitely necessary. Or do you want to use custom? And here you would choose between the vCPU attribute and the memory, say how much min and max you want. So this is more advanced. And also, if you wanted to force, for example, a specific instance type, you would say Allowed instance type. And you would say, for example, only t3.micro. That's it. And then you would only have t3.micro as part of these managed instances. So it's quite nice because AWS is going to manage these instances for you. And then you can go and click on Create. Now, to be compatible with the next lectures that I've done, but they're very similar things, instead of managing our instances, we'll have self-managed instances. Here we're going to create a new auto-scaling group of on-demand. We specify the instance type to be t3.micro. And then we'll use the default role for the EC2 instance role. We say a maximum 2. No need for SSH. We specify the min root EBS volume size of 30 gigabytes. And then we leave everything for network settings as defaults, and then click on Create. So while this is happening, let's have a look at the auto-scaling group that is being created on AWS. And then on the left-hand side, I will click on Auto Scaling Groups right here. And it's showing, as you can see, there was an auto-scaling group created for me called Infra-ECS-Cluster. And these are capacity 0, min capacity 0, max capacity 5. And this was created directly by my ECS cluster. And the creation is in progress. And what this cluster has, we'll have maybe EC2 instances for me to launch tasks on. So we can see it's in three available two zones. So we know that the ECS tasks are going to be launched across three AZ. And what I'm going to do now is just wait for this cluster to be created, which is the case now. So what I can do now is explore this DemoCluster. So if I click on it, I'm in the DemoCluster, and I can go to Services, are 0, tasks are 0 because we haven't launched anything yet. And then we go to the more interesting, Infrastructure. So if you go here to the Infrastructure, we have three capacity providers in this ECS cluster. The first one is FARGATE. That means that we can launch Fargate task onto our ECS cluster. The second one is FARGATE_SPOT. That means that we can launch Fargate task in Spot mode, select Spot instances for EC2. And the last one is a ASG provider. And this one means that we can launch EC2 instances in this cluster directly through this ASG. So it's managed scaling right now, and the current size is 0. But I can change it if I wanted to. So let me show you what it would look like. I go here, I go to Details, and I would edit the desired capacity to be 1, just to show you what it's like. So what's going to happen out of this is that an EC2 instance is going to be created, okay? And when is created is going to register itself into the DemoCluster. And then I will see it under Container instances. That means that when we create an ECS task, it can either be launched on a Fargate or Fargate Spot capacity provider, or it can be launched on the container instances that I will have launched as part of this ASG. So what I'm going to do now is just wait for this instance to be in the running state and registered into my ECS cluster. So let me refresh now. My instance is in service, and it's t2.micro. And if I go back into my Amazon ECS cluster, it is registered as a container instance that is currently, of course, running 0 tasks, and has 1024 CPU available, and 982 memory available. So this is giving me the capacity of this instance, and I can launch, as you'll see, tasks on it until the capacity runs out. So, we're good to go. So we have an ECS cluster. We've seen two capacity providers. Three. We've seen the container instances. So now let's go ahead and do run our first service. And I will see you in the next lecture to do that.

---

### Lecture: Amazon ECS - Create Service - Hands On

So now let's create an ECS service. But before we do so, we need to create a task definition. So I'm going to create a new task definition from the task definition panels, and I need to give it a name. So I'll call this nginxdemos-hello. And this is coming from this docker image called nginxdemohello on docker hub. And so this is the one we're going to be using in our demo. So this is why I call my test definition nginxdemo with a hyen of hello. Okay, next we need to choose the infrastructure requirements. So do we want to launch on Fargate or Amazon EC2 instances. Well, Fargate is serverless compute, so we'll leave it enabled. And if we enable this, we could launch this task, this service on our Amazon EC2 instances. But for simplicity's sake, right now I'm just going to use AWS Fargate and launch our containers in two serverless compute mode. Then we need to choose what type of OS and architecture we have. So Linux is fine. And what is the task size for our Fargate container? So we can say for example, that we have 0.5 or one vCPU, and you can go up to 16 vCPU in this example. And then you can also adjust memory. So you can say, hey, I want up to, for example, 120 gigabytes of memory. So all of this would be provided by Fargate in a serverless fashion. To keep things very cheap and simple, I will choose 0.5 vCPU, and one gigabytes. Next we have task role. So task roll is an IM role that we can assign to our task if we wanted to make API request to AWS services. But because we don't do this right now, we are not going to specify a task role. But this is something of utmost importance if your containers need to use AWS. Now for the task execution role, leave it as default and if this ECS task execution role is not created yet, it's going to be created automatically by ECS service. So we're good. Next our container. So the name is going to be nginxdemos-hello. And the image URL is going to be nginxdemoshello/hello. And this is going to pull automatically this image from the docker hub right here. So this is very handy and it's an essential container. Now we have lots of different options. For example, the port mappings. So we want to map the port 80 to the port 80 of the container, which is great, and we'll leave it as is. And then you could add more port mappings if you wanted to. You could for example, set the resource allocation limits, the environment variables from file or manually and the logging. But all these things I'm gonna leave as default because this is going to work fine for us. Storage, Fargate comes with some ephemeral storage. So we'll leave it as is again, from 21 gigabytes, which is a default right here. And this is fine, just leave the value you have right now. So let's create this. And this is creating our first task definition. Now you see version two for me because I've just created it twice. But for you, you should see version one. So next, let's launch this task definition as a survey. So let's go into clusters and then demo cluster. And under services, I'm going to create a service. Okay, so I should specify the details of the service. So first we're going to select a task definition family. We'll choose the nginxdemoshello. Then you choose whatever task definition revision is available for you. I choose the latest, which is number two for me. And then service name, you can keep this or you can remove this, whatever you want. Okay, so now the service name is going to be created on this cluster. We need to choose the compute configuration. So we'll use capacity provider strategy, we'll leave it as default, and then we'll use Fargate to launch our own services and tasks. Okay, platform version will leave it as latest as well. We don't touch any of these. For the deployment configuration, which is replica. So we'll have a number of tasks across our cluster. And right now we want one task. But if you wanted more tasks, for example, select four, and you would have four containers of your nginxdemo available to you. But we wanna keep it small to keep the cost at a minimum. Okay, so we leave everything as is for AZ rebalancing. This is an ECS feature to rebalance in case you have too many tasks in one specific AZ. We don't touch any of the deployment options or this. For networking we're gonna go in here, we're good with these subnets, we're going to create a new security group. I can keep this name, this is fine. And then we're going to allow HTP traffic from anywhere. This allows us to access the port80 of our nginx service. Okay, next we'll use public IP turn on, yes, perfect. And then for load balancing, we're going to allow load balancing. To have a load balancer we have an application load balancer. It's going to be connected to our port80 of our nginx demo. We're going to create it, I'll call it DemoALBForECS. Listener on port 80, And then we're going to create a new target group, nginxdemosTG. On port 80, we're good to go. And then we will not touch the VPC lattice. We will not touch the service auto scaling since we wanna scale up and down based on the CloudWatch alarm. We will not set up any volume. We'll just go ahead and create this service. So our service has now been deployed successfully. So let's click on the service and have a look at it. So as we can see right now we have one desired task and one is running and the status is active. So this is really good. And we can see that the service is linked to a target group. So I click on the target group, and in the target group itself, we can see that it's linked to our demoALB, which is the application balancer that was created as part of this service. And it looks like one IP address is registered as a target. And this is the IP address of my container, which is very good. So now if we have a look at this load balancer itself, it is active, I can copy the DNS name and then open a new tab and paste it. And I get the nginx welcome page, which is very good. So that means that everything is working. The server address is the exact same as the IP we have registered in here. So this is the private IP, which is good. And what else? So if we go under the service itself, now we can have a look at tasks. So as you can see, one container is running right now, and this is this one task. And I can click on it and have a look at this task itself. So it tells me the configuration, the task revision, where it's been launched, the private IP, the containers. We can have a look at logs to know the logs of our nginx container as well, which is good. And if we look at the service itself, so we are on the service, and then we go to events, we can have a look at what were the events of this. So that means that we have one task that has been started. It was registered in Atari group, and then it's been complete deployment, and now we have a steady state. So as we can see in this, I can go to slash test for example, and the URI will change in here. So nginx is working as expected. Now what we can do, because we're under ECS, is that we have a look at our task. We have one of them, but we can launch some more. So I will show you how easy it is to launch more tasks with Farget. So let's update this service. And now the desired number of task is going to be three. So one per AZ, for example, and the rest I will just leave as is. So we'll leave the test definition to the same. We'll leave the compute configuration as Fargate and load balancing does not change in terms of health checks and so on. So let's just click on updates. And now what's going to happen is that we have asked the ECS service to run two more tasks. So if I refresh this and wait a little bit, now we have two more tasks being provisioned and they are provisioned on the Fargate engine. So that means that behind the scenes, AWS is going to provision automatically the resource that it needs to launch these tasks. So let's wait a little bit. They're pending. Now they're activating, and now they're running. So this was very quick actually. And if I go under here and now refresh this page, as you can see, the IP address is changing every time I refresh. So the application balancer is distributing the load between all my containers on ECS, which is great. So this is quite powerful, and we just demonstrated the scaling of ECS while scaling up. And just to scale back the demo and save on cost, we can update the service here and have the desired number of tasks to be zero. This way the service is still there, but we don't have any containers running. And under my application my auto scaling group, sorry, then I'm going to click on this and make sure the desired capacity is also zero. This way we are sure not to be running any type of instances on our EC2 cluster for ECS. Okay? So now you can verify this, that the tasks are gone and you're good to go. And you can look at the events to see what has ECS done while we were asking it to update the service. Okay? So that's it. We've seen how to create an ECS cluster, we've seen how to create an ECS service on Fargate. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon ECR

Okay, so let's do a short intro to Amazon ECR. So Amazon ECR stands for Elastic Container Registry, and it's used to store and manage Docker images on AWS. So so far, we've been using online repository such as Docker hub but we can also store our own images on Amazon ECR. And actually you have two options for ECR. We can store images privately, just for your account or your own accounts with an s or you can use a public repository and publish to the Amazon ECR public gallery. Now ECR is fully integrated with Amazon ECS, which is great. And your images are behind the scenes stored by Amazon S3. So your ECR repository may contain different Docker images and then your ECS cluster. And for example, an EC2 instance on your ECS cluster may want to pull these images. So to do so while we're going to sign an IAM role to our EC2 instance and this IAM role will allow our instance to pull Docker images. So of course, all access to ECR is protected by IAM. That includes that if you have a permission error on ECR have a look at your policies and then your containers are going to be started on your EC2 instance after they are pulled by your EC2 instance. And this is how ECS and ECR ECR work together. Now, Amazon ECR is great because on top of being a repository, it, supports image vulnerability scanning, versioning, image tags, and image lifecycle. So overall, anytime you see storing Docker images think ECR and that should be it for you at the exam. All right. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EKS

So let's talk about the other way to run containers onto AWS, and this is using Amazon EKS. So Amazon EKS stands for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service. So it is a way, as the name indicates, to launch and manage Kubernetes cluster onto AWS. So what is Kubernetes? Well, this is the blue logo you see in the top right corner of the screen. Kubernetes is an open-source system for automatic deployments, scaling and management of containerized, usually Docker, applications. So it is an alternative to ECS, which has a similar goal which is to run your containers, but a very different API. The idea is that ECS is definitely not open-source. Whereas Kubernetes is open-source and used by many different cloud providers which gives you some sort of standardization. So EKS supports two launch modes, again the EC2 launch mode if you want to deploy worker mode like EC2 instances, or the Fargate mode if you wanted to deploy serverless containers in an EKS cluster. So the use case for using EKS is that your company is already using Kubernetes on-premises, or already using Kubernetes in another cloud, or they just want use the Kubernetes API, and they want to use AWS to manage the Kubernetes cluster, then they would use Amazon EKS. So again, Kubernetes from an exam perspective, is cloud agnostic, it can be used into any cloud such as Azure, Google Cloud and so on. And so that means that if you are trying to migrate between clouds or your containers, using Amazon EKS may be a much more simple solution. So in terms of diagram, this is what it looks like. So we have a VPC, 3 AZ separated into public subnets and private subnets. And so you would create EKS Worker Nodes they would be EC2 instances for example, and each of these nodes will be running EKS Pods. So they're very similar to ECS tasks, but from a naming perspective, anytime you see pods, it relates to Amazon Kubernetes, okay? So we have EKS Pods and they're running onto EKS Nodes, and so these nodes can be managed by an Auto Scaling group. Now, very similarly to ECS, if you wanted to expose EKS Service and Kubernetes Service, we could set up a private load balancer, or a public load balancer to talk to the web. So let's summarize the different node types that exist for Amazon EKS. So you have the Manage Node Groups, and this is AWS that will create and manage Nodes, so EC2 instances for you. And these nodes are part of an Auto Scaling group, managed by the EKS service itself. And you have support for On-Demand and Spot Instances. You can also choose if you wanted to, to self-manage nodes, this is if you want to have more customizations and more control. So in that case you need to create the nodes yourself, and then you need to register them to an EKS cluster, and then you manage your own nodes as part of an ASG. You can still use the pre-built Amazon EKS Optimized AMI for this, which saves you a bit of time, or you can build your own AMI, which is more complicated. This supports as well, the On-Demand and the Spot Instances. And finally, if you don't wanna see any nodes at all, then Amazon EKS, as I told you, supports the Fargate mode in which there is no maintenance required, and no nodes are managed at all you can just run containers on top of Amazon EKS. Now you can attach data volumes to your Amazon EKS cluster. For this, you need to specify a StorageClass manifest on your EKS cluster, and this leverages something called the Container Storage Interface, CSI compliant driver. So keywords to look out for at the exam. And you have support for Amazon EBS, you have support for Amazon EFS, and this is the only type of storage class that works with Fargate. You have Amazon FSx for Lustre and Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP. So that's it for Amazon EKS. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EKS - Hands On

So I wanna show you a quick hands on for Amazon EKS but this is completely out of the feature. So if you do decide to do it it's going to cost you quite a bit of money. So I just suggest you just watch what I'm doing just to understand a bit better the Kubernetes per service from AWS. So we are going to create a new cluster on AWS. So I use demo EKS as a name. I can select a Kubernetes version. I will use the default and then we need to have a service role to manage everything. So to create this role I need to follow the instructions from the EKS user guide. So I go to IAM and then I will have to create a role for EKS. And then I will need to add the EKS cluster role. So let's do this. We're going to go to roles. Create a role. This is for a service. This is for the EKS service. Here we go. And we'll do EKS cluster to allow access to other services that are operated by our cluster. So here we go. We're good. Next. Then the permission is selected already and the role name is EKS cluster role. Let's create this role. Invalid name, so let's just remove the first space in the beginning. And now the role is being created. Okay, so let's refresh this and we can find this role right here. Now, do we want to encrypt our secrets with KMS? For now I'm not going to do it, but this is a possibility for security. Then where do you want to deploy our clusters? So we have a VPC and subnet. So this is so we are, we are highly available. Then security groups we want out of this. So we could select, for example, the default security group. And then we choose the IPv4 type of services. Then the cluster endpoint access is going to be public so that we can access it from our computer. Do we want any networking add-ons? So we'll just choose the default again and the default for proxy and DNS. So as you can see, these are like a lot of configuration and EKS should be its own course. To be honest, I just want to run through you the options so you can understand what's happening. Then we can configure logging for the control plane. I'm not going to do it. And then we review the settings. So we have set up security groups, networking, cluster, API access to public, and we are good to go. So let's create this. And what this is going to do is that it's going to create the cluster itself and then we'll have to create the nodes for the cluster. So my cluster is now created. And the next step is to provision compute capacity for your cluster, by adding a managed node group or creating your fargate profile. So we've seen this in the overview and that's just what I wanted to show you. So if we go into the resources, this is where all your Kubernetes resources are going to be managed. And this is some Kubernetes specific knowledge, okay? But this is where you have it for the Kubernetes experts. Then in compute, this is where we can add node groups. So if I go into node groups, I can add node group here. I call this one demo node group. You would need to create an IAM role for this node group. So we go into the IAM console... And then we create a new role. And this role are, is for the EC2 instances that are part of my manage node group. So I will just use EC2 and then I will search for policies. I will type EKS and you want an Amazon EKS worker node policy added in it. So let's click on next. And for this, I will enter and it's somewhere in documentation. So I will enter the... Amazon EKS node role and actually there's add permissions for this. And then we need to also add the Amazon EC2 container registry read only policy in this. So let's go back. In here, we're going to edit permissions and add one more thing. The Amazon EC2 container registry. So let's look for this. Here we go. It's here, next. And we're good to go. Let's create this role. So just make sure it doesn't start with the space. Here we go. The role is created... and now I'm able to go in here refresh this, and I will find the Amazon EKS node role. Great. Then do we want to have a launch template for our EC2 instances? We can specify one but I will leave this unticked and then click on next. What type of node group do we want? So Amazon Linux 2 is great. Do we want on-demand or spot instances? What type of instances do we want? So we want T3 medium? T3 micro? Whatever you want. What is the disc size? What is the node scaling configuration? So how many nodes in your node groups do you want? So this is the settings for the OS scaling group. And then what is the node group update? So when you do update how many nodes can you tolerate to be done? So click on next. What subnets do you want access to? And then when we're good to go we create this managed node group. And so to show you this this is the way to deploy EC2 instances for your Amazon EKS cluster, but they are entirely managed by AWS, which is, makes it very easy. And the other way to create nodes in here. So, we go one level up, we go back into computes. The other way to create nodes, except from this node group is actually to have fargates and fargates allows you not to provision EC2 instances. And so we would have with a setup to go and add a target profile. Now we're not going do this. I just want to show you the options for node groups for fargate profiles. Actually don't need this one. So I'll delete it when it's finished creating. And the last option I wanna show you is around add-ons. So if we wanted to actually use EBS volumes we can install add-ons. And one of them is the Amazon EBS CSI driver. And this will allow us to leverage EBS for our Amazon EKS cluster and they will be STS side driver also for EFS X, EFS, and so on. Okay. So this is all the actions, I am gonna show you. Kubernetes requires its own knowledge to be honest, and it's very very difficult and requires a full course on it. So what I'm going to do now is just go ahead and delete this cluster. So for this I'll just type demo EKS, and this will be it all I wanted to show you was how to create an EKS cluster and to delete the first need to delete the note groups. I will skip that from the video. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Batch

The next service you need to know at a high level is AWS batch eight. AWS batch allows you to run batch jobs that its name indicates, and they're based on Docker images. And so with AWS batch you don't provision the instance. There is a dynamic provisioning of the instances for you, whether it's an EC2 instance or a spot instance. And batch figures out the optimal quantity and the type of these instances based on the volume of jobs it has to do and the requirements. So you don't need to manage any clusters. It's a fully serverless service, just like glue, you just pay for the underlying EC2 instances that are created by batch itself. So you can schedule batch jobs using CloudWatch events to allow you to maybe run on a schedule. Or you can orchestrate batch jobs using step functions. And we'll see this in the next lecture. But so a question you may have again is what is the difference between batch and glue. So glue again just to go over it one more time. It's Apache spark code Scala or Python only. And it's focused on the ETL. And you don't worry about configuring managing resources and you have the data catalog. Now for batch it is a bit different. It's for any computing job regardless of the job okay. It's not just for ETL, it's for anything that is batch oriented. So as long as you have a Docker image that works for batch, you can do it in batch. So for example, a job that may be good for batch would be a cleanup task in an S3 bucket. So you run a script on an S3 bucket to clean it up. And you run this as a batch job every so often. Whereas in glue it's really about taking data, transforming it, and then placing it somewhere else. So the resources are created in your account and they're managed by batch. So you're using EC2 instances within your account. So you have access to all the stuff within your account. And so if you have an ETL means you actually need to transform some data. Glue is probably going to be a better choice. But if you have non ETL related work but it is still batch oriented, then AWS batch will be better. So that's it just for this service. Hope that was helpful and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CloudFormation

Welcome to this section on Deploying and Managing Infrastructure at Scale. In this section, we'll see different ways to deploy your workloads onto AWS. And the first technology I wanna talk about is CloudFormation. So CloudFormation is such an important technology in the AWS because it is a declarative way of outlining your AWS infrastructure, for any resources, and most of them are supported. So to give you a concrete example, in CloudFormation, you would say, I want a security group. I want two EC2 instances that will be using that security group. I also want an S3 bucket, and I want a load balancer in front of all these machines. Then CloudFormation automatically creates all these things for you, in the right order, with the exact configuration that you specify. So the benefits of using CloudFormation are multiple, but the first one is that all your infrastructure is as code. That means that you will never, ever create resources manually like we've done in this course, which is excellent for control. And that means that anytime you do changes to how your AWS cloud is doing, then it needs to be reviewed through code review, which is a great way to operate in a cloud. On top of things, there is a cost advantage because each resource within the stack is going to get a tag that is going to be similar to all the other resources creating within the stack. And you can also easily estimate the cost of your resources using the CloudFormation templates. And finally, thanks to CloudFormation, you can have a saving strategy. For example, you can say that in some environment you could automate the deletion of all the templates at 5:00 PM, which will delete all the associated resources with that template, and then recreate it at 9:00 AM or 8:00 AM safely. And so therefore, you have cost savings because you don't have any resources between 5:00 PM and 8:00 AM. With CloudFormation, it's super easy to create and delete resources, which is one of the biggest cloud principle. Then for productivity. So as I said, you're able to destroy and recreate infrastructure on the fly. It's also generating diagrams for your templates as we'll see very quickly. And there's declarative programming, so you don't need to figure out if you need to create a DynamoDB table first, or an EC2 instance, or all these things together. The CloudFormation template is smart enough to figure out how to do things. Finally, with CloudFormation, we don't reinvent the wheel. So that means that we can leverage existing templates on the web, we can leverage documentation, and CloudFormation supports almost all AWS resources. That means that everything we'll see in this course is supported by CloudFormation. And in case it isn't, you can use something called a custom resource for resources that are not supported. So CloudFormation really is the base of infrastructure as code on AWS. So as I said, you can visualize a CloudFormation template using the Infrastructure Composer service and to (indistinct) to visualize a WordPress CloudFormation stack. And as you can see, we can see all the resources of our CloudFormation templates. So we can see the ALB Listener, the database security group, the SQL database, different security groups, launch configuration, application balancers, and so on. But on top of it, we can see the relations between all of these components and how they're linked together, which is very handy when you want to understand your architecture diagrams. So from an exam perspective, CloudFormation is going to be used when we have infrastructure as code, when we need to repeat an architecture in different environments, different regions, or even different AWS accounts. So that's it for me. I will see you in the next lecture for a short practice on CloudFormation.

---

### Lecture: AWS CloudFormation - Hands On

Okay, so I'm going to give you a quick introduction to CloudFormation and give you an overview that really allows you to understand how it works. So let's create a stack and let's make sure first of all that we are in the US East, Northern Virginia, US East 1 region, because the template I've created for you only works in that region. And I will tell you why when we see the template. So please make sure to switch the region to this one. Next we create a stack and we have to prepare templates. So multiple options. We can choose an existing one, use a sample template and some samples are provided or build from Application Composer. But we're going to choose an existing template. We're going to upload a template file and let me show you what the file looks like. So in your course code under CloudFormation, you have 0-just-EC2.yaml. And this is a very simple file right now which has a resource blog and it creates an instance called My instance. The type is EC2 instance, and then you have a few properties. The first one is the availability zone, which is US East 1a and this is why you have to choose US East 1 as your region in CloudFormation service right now. And the image ID is this AMI ID. And as you should know, AMI IDs are scoped within the region. So for these two reasons, you must be in US East 1 for this hands-on. The instance type is T2 micro. And so as you can see we define how to launch an EC2 instance through this YAML file. So let's go ahead and actually upload this file. So select it and then you can actually view it in Application Composer. So open this in a new tab. So here is my template. So as you can see, Application Composer gives us a visual understanding of our templates. So if we look within templates, we get back the code that we just uploaded right here and we can switch it to YAML and JSON if we wanted to. But in the canvas we see that we have one standard component, which is an EC2 instance in my instance. You could double click on it and view it the fact that it's an EC2 instance as well. So Application Composer is a nice way of getting a visual feedback of your templates. Anyway, back into our stack. Let's click on next. We have to provide a demo stack name. So I'll call this one demo CloudFormation and then some parameters. But because we don't define any parameters in our templates so far, we don't do anything here. Let's click on next here we have tags. So I'm just going to show you tag being CFDemo just to show you how tags work in CloudFormation. We scroll down, no permissions to set. We don't touch these options and neither of these options. So let's click on next and we review and create. And when we're good to go, let's click on submit. So as you can see now this template I uploaded is going to generate some events and that was very quick. So the events are done and this actually created a resource right here, which is an EC2 instance. So the code got a resource out of it, and this is why it's called Infrastructure as Code. So you can click on this EC2 instance. As you can see right now in the EC2 console, my instance is running and you can check the fact that indeed it is a T2 micro type of instance. And you can also check the fact that the AMI ID we have selected is the one that was entered in our template. So this is all very convenient. On top of it, we notice that if you go to our EC2 instance and we look at the tags, we can see that some tags were applied by CloudFormation, which are the name of the CloudFormation, the name of the logical ID and the stack ID, but also the name we have specified. So the tag we specified has name CFDemo has also been applied to this EC2 instance, and therefore it's named correctly. Okay, so now that we have an instance, let's go ahead and update this stack. So we click on update and we replace the existing template. And this time we're going to choose this 1-ec2-with-sg-eip file. And if you have a look at it, this file is right here. So we have a more complete file now. We have a parameter section to set the security group description. We have the EC2 instance section, which is a bit more complete because now it has security groups and it has two of those. We have an Elastic IP here that is attached to my instance. And we have one security group here defined for SSH rules. So port 22 is going to be open and we have the server security group, which is going to be open on port 80 from everyone and port 22 from a very specific IP. So this is a more complete CloudFormation template. Now let's go back to CloudFormation and we're going to apply these template. So here we are prompted with a parameter. So what is the security group description? So let's enter demo description. And as you can see now we are entering some texts, which is going to make everything vary. We don't touch the tags, we don't touch anything. Let's click on next. And now because we are applying an update, as you can see, we have a change set. And so we can preview the change sets, which is what is going to change in our CloudFormation stack. So as you can see, a few things are added. There is an Elastic IP, there is an SSH security group and a server security group. And it's add, so it's new. And my instance is going to change, it's going to be modified, and there is a column here says replacement true. That means that this EC2 instance is going to be replaced, that means that the previous one is going to be deleted and a new one is going to be created. So it's good to know in case you had some data on your EC2 instance. So now let's submit this update and see what happens. So CloudFormation is a very smart service because well, from just this code right here it's able to figure out exactly what to do thanks to the change sets, so it knows exactly what to create first. So as you can see, the server security group and the SSH security group already are created. And only then will it update the EC2 instance. So now the my instance is an update in progress, and as you can see, it says requested updates requires the creation of a new physical resource, hence creating one. So if you go into the EC2 console and we remove this filter, now we see that we have two EC2 instances. This one was created before and this one is the new one and it was pending and now it is running. So a new instance got created and once it's created, again, it's going to be updated here, the update is complete. And now we have MyEIP. So now the Elastic IP is going to be created and then attached to my EC2 instance. So if we're quick and we go on the left hand side to Elastic IP, even though we may not have seen what it is here is Elastic IP that is properly created, properly tagged, and it is attached already to our EC2 instance. So now if I click on this one and then I click on networking at the bottom, you see Elastic IP address here was attached. So everything was done by CloudFormation and was done well. And if you look at CloudFormation now in the events, as you can see, the Elastic IP was created and then there was a cleanup in progress due in progress. So that means that the previous EC2 instance right here, this one got terminated, which is very handy because CloudFormation takes care of everything. So you can go into the resources tab and see everything that was created through CloudFormation. On top of it, if you go to the template and you click on view in Application Composer, you're able to see now your new architecture. So we have an EC2 instance connected to an Elastic IP and connected to two security groups. So this is very handy because it gets a visual representation again of our templates. So finally, of course, confirmation. You could go ahead and delete things manually. You could delete this Elastic IP and so on, and the EC2 instances manually. But this is actually not recommended. You don't wanna touch anything manually when using CloudFormation. Instead, you want to either update the templates, or if you wanted to delete everything, just click on delete. And CloudFormation will delete all the stack resources. And the stack resources are also going to be deleted in the right orders. So CloudFormation will figure out what to delete first and so on to clean up everything. So CloudFormation is a really powerful service to do infrastructure as code because it's declarative. You just say what you want and CloudFormation figures it out, and all the code will control your infrastructure, which is very, very handy. So learning how to use it and write it can be a very good skill in AWS. So I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CDK

Now let's talk about the AWS Cloud Development Kit, or CDK, which allows you to define your cloud infrastructure in a familiar programming language, such as JavaScript or TypeScript, Python, Java, and .NET. So you may be saying, "Hey, it looks like this is overlapping with CloudFormation, because CloudFormation we can define the cloud infrastructure using YAML. But now we can do it using a programming language. So what is this?" Well, this is something that supersedes CloudFormation, as we'll see in a second. So let's say we want to define our infrastructure using TypeScript, and so we have this code right here in which we are defining three different things. We are defining constructs, and so there are high level components that we can use thanks to the CDK. So the first construct we're using is a VPC. So we create a new VPC, we give it a name, and we give it three AZs. And this creates a VPC for us which is going to contain some pre-made configuration. Then we define an ECS cluster. And the ECS cluster is named MyCluster and has a link to the VPC we just defined. And then we define an application load-balanced Fargate service, so this is a Fargate service with an ALB which is linked to the cluster we just defined. We define how much CPU, how many tasks we want, so six, the task image options, the memory limits, and that we want a public ALB. So all of this is defined using a programming language, which means that if we don't have functioning code if the code doesn't compile, then it's going to give us an error, and that means that our template cannot be generated. But if the code can be compiled because it is sound and typesafe, then it is going to be compiled into a CloudFormation template. It could be either JSON and YAML. And so therefore, we are using the CDK to define CloudFormation templates in the backend. But this is allowing us to be a lot more flexible about it and use a programming language. So that also means that we can deploy infrastructure and application runtime code together. So this is great for Lambda functions, great for Docker containers in ECS or EKS. So this is a revolution because CloudFormation template is YAML, it's not typesafe, you can make errors, and you only know at the very end if it worked or not. But with the CDK, you can define those using constructs and a programming language. So if you want a diagram, then we have our application constructs. It could be Lambda functions, DynamoDB, Amazon S3, ECS, some step functions, and so on. And we can use programming languages, such as Python, TypeScript, Java, .NET. We write our CDK file, I guess, and then we synthesize this using the CDK CLI into a CloudFormation template that we will apply into CloudFormation to define our infrastructure. So it is a step above CloudFormation and makes it way easier to work with CloudFormation. So you may ask me, what is the difference between CDK and SAM? Well, SAM is going to be serverless focused, and we are going to write our templates declaratively in JSON or YAML, and this is great for quickly getting started with Lambda. It also leverages CloudFormation in the backend, okay? But the focus of SAM is Lambda function and serverless applications. For the CDK, well, it is a super set of CloudFormation, so this supports every AWS services out there. And you're going to write your infrastructure with a programming language you know, for example, TypeScript, Python, Java, and .NET And it also leverages CloudFormation because it generates CloudFormation. So hopefully the difference is clear between these two services. There's also a way where you can combine the CDK and the SAM framework. So you can use the SAM CLI to locally test your CDK applications. How? Well, first we must run cdk synth, and when we do that, we have a Lambda function say, in the CDK application, we run the cdk synth command and this is going to generate a CloudFormation template that has been synthesized from the CDK. But then, thanks to this CloudFormation template, we can use the same framework and do SAM local invoke reference the CloudFormation template and call the function. And these two frameworks work really well together. So in the next lecture, we're going to do a hands-on on CDK. And with this hands-on, we're going to deploy an application that allows us to deploy an S3 bucket on which the users can put an image. This S3 bucket is going to trigger a Lambda function which is going to send an API call to Rekognition to analyze the image and get the results back from Rekognition, and then the Lambda function is going to save the results to Amazon DynamoDB. And all of this is going to define all from within a CDK script. So let's go and do this in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CDK - Hands On

So just as a quick reminder we're going to use the CDK to create an S3 bucket, a Lambda function that will invoke Amazon Recognition and DynamoDB tables to save the results of our action all using the Amazon CDK. So let's go. Okay, so let's practice using the CDK. For this I'm going to use CloudTrail to be able to run commands against my AWS environment. So click on CloudTrail and CloudTrail is getting ready. And in the meantime you can go under CDK and open the steps.sh to get started and run some commands. So first of all, what we have to do is to initialize and install the CDK on our environments. So for this, we do a sudo npm install and we install the aws-cdk-lib. So let's paste this and press Enter. And now we have installed the CDK lib on our computer. So that means that if I type cdk now we're going to get some commands out of it as you can see. Right now we get some error because we have to specified which CDK command we want, but it's working. So next we're going to create a directory called cdk-app and then we're going to change directory to go in it. And this is very important to do so. Next we're going to initialize our CDK application. So for this the command is cdk init. Then we specify app and then we specify a language. This is what we will write the infrastructure in. So we have JavaScript but we can also have for example, Python. But we chose JavaScript in this example. Okay, now everything is done. So we're going to verify that it has been successfully initialized by doing cdk ls, which should return one thing, it will return the CdkAppStack. Alright, that's perfect. So next what we have to do is to actually copy the content of the cdk-app-stack into the lib directory. So if you do ls lib, you'll see there's a cdk-app-stack. So let's go into this lib directory. We're going to remove the cdk-app-stack, and then we touch the cdk-app-stack to create a new file and we'll use nano to edit this file. So if you see nano command not found. Just do sudo yum install nano. Nano is a text editor. Yes. Nano is a text editor, which will allow us to edit some files. So let's clear this and we'll do again, nano cdk-app-strack.js. And now we're going to paste the content of lib, this file. So let's copy-paste it. Yes, please paste multiline. Exit. And Save, so Control + X and Y. Okay, just make sure you're good by doing a cat. And cat allows you to see that, yes, you have indeed copied all the content into this file. Okay, so now let's do a little look into what this file is because this is the core of the CDK. So at the top, we require the CDK library and then we require some specific constructs from CDK such as S3, IAM, Lambda, DynamoDB, as well as more. So we scroll down and then we see that thanks to code we start deploying and defining our infrastructure. For example, here we define an S3 buckets and we say this is an S3 bucket, and by the way, the removal policy is destroy this. So that means that please destroy this bucket when the stack is destroyed. And we have an output that's defined out of it called CfnOutputs. And the name is buckets and the value is the bucket name. And so this is going to be converted into CloudFormation but this is programmed as code. This is because the CDK knows what to expect to create an S3 bucket, and so therefore you can define different parameters. And this allows you to be a lot more versatile, a lot more agile when creating your stacks because you just write code, you don't write CloudFormation. So if you know a little bit of JavaScript or you know a little bit of Python, you may prefer this method. So then we go ahead, we create a role for Lambda. So we call this one role and then we define how it's working to work. And then there's a function called addToPolicy where we can add a policy statement into a role. So we've done this in two steps, in two lines of code, one and two. And this really shows the power of mixing programmation and then at the end, compiling into CloudFormation. So we have a DynamicDB table yet again we created, we defined the partition key, the removal policy as well as that becomes an output. Then we have a Lambda function. We define the runtime, the role, some environment variables that are linked directly to the table we have defined from before. And the buckets we're defining right after, or right before right here. So it really shows again the power of using programming languages. We can add event sources to say that the Lambda function is going to be triggered from Amazon S3. And then we have some very good shorthand such as we can grant read-write access to the Lamnda function on the bucket and the table by just having one line and using this function instead of figuring out what is the correct IAM policy. So that's really the power of using the CDK right here. Okay. So once we're done, we need to actually set up the lamb function that will be invoked. Okay, so to do so from the lib directory, we go one level up. So now we're back into our top-level directory. We're going to create a Lambda directory and go in it. And then we're going to create a file called index.py in it by doing touch index.py. Then we're going to edit it, so nano index.py and we copy the content of Lambda index.py. So let's take everything from here and paste it and then paste it. And then Control + X, Y Enter. Okay. So now our index.py file is properly set up as you can see. This is perfect. We can have a look at what it does. So what it does that it detects labels in images using Amazon Recognition. So it's going to actually look at the image coming from S3 and then run it through recognition. And then finally write the data, the target data into DynamoDB. Okay, so this function is now created. Now we need to bootstrap the CDK application, bootstrap CDK overall. So this is something you have to do once per account per region, and of course you should be running this command from a directory one level up because there is a cdk.json file in it which contains some important information around how we want to be set up. Let's go back, we run the CDK bootstrap again. Paste this. Press Enter. And this is going to create all the necessary stuff in your accounts to run the CDK. So it actually goes into CloudFormation. So if you open the CloudFormation service, so CloudFormation in here. As you see right now, there's a stack being created called the CDK Toolkit. And this is what's necessary for CDK to work. So if you look at resources in here, you can see that there is SSM parameter, IAM roles, ECR repository, IAM role, IAM roll, and then an S3 bucket. A bit of necessary stuff for the CDK to work. This is something you have to do once per region and per account. Next, we're going to run cdk synth to get the target CloudFormation template that is going to be generated out of our stack. So by running cdk synth, what's going to happen is that we're actually going to get a whole CloudFormation template, as you can see in here, an entirely a big one. And that contains everything we need. So it has an S3 bucket it has S3 bucket notifications being set up. It also has a Lambda function and so on, and IAM role and SSM parameters. So the idea here is that this is what's going to be deployed to CloudFormation, and we can preview it, but we don't need to necessarily do it. And finally, we need to deploy the CDK stack. So we'll run CDK deploy. And this is actually going to generate this CloudFormation template and deploy it into CloudFormation. So you say, yes, here are all the things that are going to be created. Everything looks good, let's say yes. And press Enter. And now is going to actually deploy a new CloudFormation template that is going to be representing our stack. So if I go in here, we have the CdkAppStack, actually yes, being created. And if we have a look at our resources, there's going to events and resources and refresh. We can see everything that is being created such as the IAM role, the S3 bucket, DynamoDB table, and so on. So let's wait until everything is created. Okay, so my stack is fully created and if we refresh this page, we see we have 11 resources being created. So what's important to us is going to be the S3 bucket and the DynamoDB table. So let's go into the S3 bucket right here, open it in a new tab, and then the DynamoDB table as well. So the idea is that whenever we upload a file into this S3 bucket, the Lambda function that get deployed will be run and then we will have some data in our DynamoDB table. So for this right now, if you go into explore table items, we don't have any items, but let's do a quick experiment and see if everything is working. So we go into these buckets and I'm going to upload the file. Add files, and then underneath my code, I'm going to choose the cdk, images and then we'll choose penguins. So let's upload this file in our buckets. And we're done. So this file is right here. I'm going to open it right here to show you what it looks like. Let's go, Preference, Allow. Okay, so this is just a man with some penguins. And so this is sent into our S3 buckets. And then what's going to happen is that our Lambda function is being run. It's going to be triggered because S3 sent a notification to our Lambda function and then recognition is going to be invoked. And finally, if I refresh this, you see that now there's one item return in my table. So the image is penguins.jpeg and then we can have a look at the fact that a penguin, a mobile phone, animal, bird, person, man, adult, male, glove and shoe all get detected in my images. And you can play a bit more. You can, for example, go back to your buckets and upload two more files. So we could upload kid_and_pigeons and swans and upload them. Okay, we good? So they've been uploaded and very quickly I go back into the DynamoDB. And now I see that more of my images have had item detected in them. And you can have a look at this table on your own. So that's pretty cool. We've seen how to deploy a full stack using the CDK. Now to clean up everything, what we have to do is that we have to empty our S3 buckets. So let's take all these files and yes, we say yes, I want to permanently delete them. So that's step one. And then step two, to clean everything up we're going to do cdk destroy. So back into CloudShell, do cdk destroy and is going to destroy everything for you. Yes, and you're good to go. All right, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeDeploy

So we have seen CloudFormation and Beanstalk, but now let's talk about CodeDeploys. So CodeDeploys is also a way for us to deploy our application automatically. Now the difference that CodeDeploy is a bit more permissive. It doesn't need to be using Beanstalk or CloudFormation. This is completely independent. So with CodeDeploy, We have our application, it's in version one, and we want you to upgrade it into version two. So CodeDeploy will find a way for us to do this. So CodeDeploy works with two things. It works with EC2 instances. And so you can have many EC2 instances being upgraded from V1 to V2, but it also works with On-Premises Servers. So if you have Servers On-Premises, and you want to help them upgrade from version one to version two for your applications, it is possible to do it with CodeDeploy. So CodeDeploy, If you look at it, it is what's called a hybrid service because it works both for On-Premises, and for EC2 instances. So CodeDeploy really allows you to work with any kind of servers, but you must provision the servers ahead of time. Okay, It's up to you. And you must configure them to install the CodeDeploy agent that will be assisting you to do these upgrades. So CodeDeploy is quite a handy service on AWS. It really allows people to do the transition from On-Premises to AWS by using the same way to deploy the application either with your On-Premise Servers, or your EC2 instances. And it is an advanced service, so I can't really demo it for you, but what you need to remember is that it allows you to upgrade both your EC2 instances, applications, and your On-Premises Servers applications from version one to version two, automatically from a single interface. So hope that was helpful. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeBuild

Now let's talk about another service called CodeBuild. So the name is explicit, it allows you to build your code in the cloud. So what does that mean? That means that the source course is going to be compiled, the tests are going to be run, and then the output of which is going to produce packages, and these packages are going to be ready to be deployed for example, by CodeDeploy onto servers so that your application can run. So, as a diagram, what does it look like? Well, say your code is in CodeCommit, CodeBuild is going to retrieve this code from CodeCommit, run some script that you have to define, build your code, and then you will have a ready-to-deploy artifacts. So why would you use CodeBuild? Well it's fully managed and serverless. It's continuously scalable and highly available and secure, and with pay-as-you-go pricing, that means that you only pay for the time your code is being built. There are no servers to manage. And that means that you can really worry about just coding, and making sure that a service within AWS, will take its time to build your code every single time you push a code updates into your CodeCommit reupholstery. So that's it, very simple, I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodePipeline

So next we have CodePipeline. So how do we know that CodeCommit and CodeBuild are connected? Well, we can connect them using CodePipeline. So CodePipeline is going to be a way for us to orchestrate the different steps to have the code automatically pushed to production? What does that mean? Well, maybe we want to define a pipeline that takes the code builds it, tests it, provision some servers and then deploys the application on those servers but it could be more complicated. And so to orchestrate all these steps you need a pipeline tool and this is going to be CodePipeline. And so you may or may not have heard of the term CICG, which may stand for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. It is the whole concept that every time a developer pushes the code into a repository, it is being built, tested and deployed on to some servers. So if we look at CodePipeline, say we have code as an orchestration layer, it will take its code from CodeCommit build it with CodeBuild, then decide to deploy it with CodeDeploy, and may be deployed into an Elastic Beanstalk environment as one example. But it's just one way of building a pipeline, okay, there's so many different ways. So why would you use CodePipeline? Well, the benefits is that it's fully managed. It's compatible with so many services such as CodeCommit, CodeBuild CodeDeploy, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudFormation, GitHub and other third party services and custom plugins. And it gives you fast delivery and rapid updates. So it is at the core of the CICD services within AWS. And so anytime you see orchestration of pipeline in your exam, you have to think AWS CodePipeline. So that's it, I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Git Review  Architecture and Commands

Somewhat surprisingly, the exam guide calls out git as something you need to know about git, being, of course, a version control system that's quite popular these days. It's kind of taken over. So again, I'm not going to give you the, uh, in depth beginner version of git here. If you've never used git before, then you might want to go off and find a whole course on that somewhere. There's plenty of good ones out there. This is just meant to be a quick review of the stuff that the exam might expect you to know. So architecturally, here's a little reminder of how git works. So we can have remote repositories and also local repositories, right? A remote repository would be on GitHub, for example, something that's on a server somewhere locally though I want to develop on certain files and, you know, mess around and do developer stuff. Right. So I could use git pull to suck things down to a local repository into my working set. I might use a clone to actually create a copy of that first, and I might use branches to actually have different branches that are devoted to specific new features I might be developing, or a specific bug that I'm trying to fix by using my own branch locally. That means I can work on those fixes independently from everybody else. And the whole idea of git is to allow many developers to work on stuff at the same time together, without messing each other up as much as possible. When I do have my changes, if I want to add a file in, I can just use the add command to my staging area, commit that back into my branch, and then push that back to the remote repository when I'm ready. Also, I can merge stuff in from another branch into my working files if I want to keep it up to date with what's happening in the main branch or something like that. Right. So let's go into some common git commands that you might be asked about. Let's just do a little roll call of what they all are. So for setting up a repository you can say git init to initialize a new one from scratch. If I want to set up my username and email and stuff, git config is the command for that. Some basic commands that you use pretty often. Git clone will clone or download a repository from a given URL. So if you want to clone a remote repository locally. Git clone is the first thing you're going to do a git status a way of checking what changes you've made in your working directory so far. So if you want to know what you've changed and kind of remind yourself of what you've done, that's one way of doing it. Git add is how you add a change to a file to the staging area. And you can also say git add star is sort of a wildcard to add all of your changes to the staging area so far. Once you're ready to commit those changes, you can say git commit M with whatever your message is and git log will view your logs of previous commits branches. Again, a way of working on things in parallel. The idea here is you might have a branch for a specific feature being developed, or some bug you're trying to fix, whatever it might be. If I want a list of all the branches that I have locally that I can switch between, git branch will list them all. If I want to create a new branch, I could just say git branch and whatever I want that branch to be named git checkout will switch you to the given branch that you want to work on. Right. So uh, and specifically dash B can be used to both create a new branch and switch to it at the same time. If you want to make a new one. Merge is how you merge one branch to the current branch. So if I want to pick up changes in some other branch, like the main branch, and make sure that's incorporated into what I'm working from. Git merge will do that for you. Also, git branch dash d is used to delete a branch once you're done with it. When working with remote repositories, you could say git remote add name and then the URL for it that will add a remote repository to a server somewhere. Git remote will list all of the remote repositories that you've been working with, and git push can be used to push your local branch to that remote repository. So once you're done committing all of your changes locally, you might push that back to the remote repository so everybody else can get access to those changes as well. Git pull, on the other hand, is used to pull changes from the remote repository branch into your current local branch, whatever that might be. If you need to undo something, git reset will reset your staging area to match the most recent commit without affecting your working directory. You can also add dash dash hard on that to reset the staging area and the working directory to match the most recent commit. Git revert is used to undo all of the changes from a previous commit. If you changed your mind, you cause some bug and didn't mean to, right? And finally, well, not finally, but we're getting we're getting there some advanced commands. Git stash is used to temporarily stash away a change that you're not ready to commit yet, right? So often I find myself using this. If there's some temporary file that, uh, is getting picked up, that shouldn't be. And I don't really want to commit that. You can use stash to kind of hide that away during the commit. And git stash pop can be used to restore what you stashed earlier. So let's say I want to stash away some temporary file, and I want to get it back when I'm done committing. I could git stash it away and then git stash pop when I'm done to restore that back. Git rebase is used to reapply changes from one branch onto another, so that's used to integrate changes from one branch into another. Sometimes if you want to go between branches that way and git cherry pick, I've never used that one myself. But um, that is for applying changes from a specific commit to the current branch. Also, you can do git blame to see a history of all the changes made to a given file and when. If you want to figure out why a change was made and who did it. Git diff can be used to see exactly what has changed between your commits, so you have a good idea of what you're checking in. First, get fetch is used to fetch changes from a remote repository without merging them, and git maintenance and data recovery. Got to wrap up with this one. Really doubt the exam's going to ask you about this, but just for completeness, get Fsoc is used to fix file system errors. Basically with your repositories, get GC cleans up and optimizes your local repository garbage collection. Git reflog will record when refs were updated in the in the local repository. So if you need to recover a lost commit, that might be one way of tracking it down. And that is git in a very, very short, small nutshell. Again, if you need more depth, there are whole courses about git, but these should just be a review of the basics that you might need for the exam.

---

### Lecture: Gitflow, GitHub Flow

So we've seen the mechanics of how git works. How do you actually use it in the real world? What are some processes you might use to manage the flow of fixes throughout your source code? Well, kind of the old fashioned way of doing it is git flow, and this is still widely used. This diagram on the right here illustrating it was generated by Atlassian, which is a popular tool in the world of scrum. And honestly, I mean, the complexity of this has always been a turnoff to me. Like the idea is that you have a lot of different branches going on. So you have a main master branch, which is your current release that's in production. That's easy enough to understand, right? But then you might also have a develop branch, and that's going to be keeping track of any changes since the last release to Main or Master. In addition, you might have feature branches off on the side that are being used for developing specific features over time. And you might have release branches that are used to merge changes with the development branch that correspond to releases that ultimately go to production. And then you might also have hotfix branches that are being branched off of main for urgent fixes that need to be done right away that don't have these larger processes around features or longer term development. And as you can imagine, keeping all these things in sync and merging them can become a little bit of a nightmare. But that's what git flow is all about. That's what we call that workflow there. And there's a little bit of a example here of how that might work. You can see we have color coded branches here for master and a hotfix there that's being done off of master. We have a develop branch that's kind of for longer term development. That's kind of steadily going along there and purple. And then we have feature releases that are branching off of development for specific feature work. Again, it's a good way to compartmentalize things, but it gets really complicated. So kind of what's in style these days is what we call GitHub flow. And with GitHub flow there are only two branches. There's the main master branch and then you have feature branches and that's it. So if you have a new feature you want to work on, maybe that's, you know, something urgent, maybe it is a bug fix. You just make a feature branch to deal with that. And once you've tested that work, you merge it back to main. And the key here is that this only works if you're able to deploy that to production immediately. So you don't want things getting out of sync. We had all these different branches before to let you work in parallel on multiple things, but if you're integrating these changes immediately, then that problem goes away. But that's the catch right? So GitHub flow only works if you have the ability to release quickly. So that implies that you have a suite of automated tests and deployments that can be run quickly and automatically, and maybe the ability to even release multiple times per day as new features are being checked in. So the simplicity of this arrangement depends on your agility, your ability to actually get this stuff out quickly. So you've heard the expression move fast and break things. Well, that's kind of what GitHub flow enables. So whether that's a good thing or not, it's up to you. So there are trade offs here right. The old fashioned way if you will, of git flow allows you to do more stuff in parallel. But it does come at the cost of more complexity. GitHub flow is simpler, but it does imply that you're releasing things very, very frequently and well, for some applications that might not be appropriate.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EventBridge

So now let's talk about Amazon EventBridge, and Amazon EventBridge used to be formally known as CloudWatch Events so you will see EventBridge in the exam, but just so you know, if you come from old AWS experience, then it used to be named the CloudWatch Events. So with EventBridge, you can do a lot of things. For example, we can schedule cron jobs in the Cloud, so we can schedule scripts. For example, we say, "Hey, every hour please trigger a Lambda function," and that Lambda function will run a script. So the events are generated every hour, hence the name Amazon EventBridge, but not just a schedule like every hour, it can also react to an event pattern. So there are event rules that can react to a service doing something. For example, you can react to the event of IAM root user sign in in the console. So when that happens, maybe you want to send a message into an SNS topic and receive an email notification, so that if anyone is using the root account, then you will receive an email, which may be a good security feature for your accounts. Also, for example, you have different destinations, you can trigger Lambda functions, send SNS and SQS messages, and so on, I will show you this all in a second. So EventBridge sits in the middle and we have all the sources that can send events into Amazon EventBridge. So for example, EC2 instances when they start, when they're stop, when they're terminated, and so on. Code Build, for example, if you have a build that fails or S3, whenever there's an event, for example, when an object is uploaded, or Trusted Advisor when you have a new finding of security in your accounts or as a good combo, you can combine EventBridge and CloudTrail and actually intercept any API call made within your AWS accounts, which is huge. Also, as I said, you can have a schedule or a cron, so you can say every four hours or every Monday at 8:00 am, the first Monday of the month, this is something you can do as well. Then these events get sent into Amazon EventBridge and you can set up a filter. For example, you say, "Hey, I only want these events for a specific bucket," for Amazon is free, for example. Then EventBridge is going to generate adjacent document that represents the details about your events. So which instance, for example, gets started, whether its ID, and so on. A lot of information, the time, the IP, and so on. So once this is done, then this JSON document, this event, can be sent into so many kind of different destinations, allowing you to do really awesome integrations. For example, you can schedule and trigger a Lambda function, you can schedule a batch in AWS Batch, you can launch an ECS task for Amazon ECS, you can send a message to SQS, to SNS, or even to a Kinesis Data Stream, you can, for example, start a Step Function, you can start a CI/CD Pipeline with CodePipeline or a build with CodeBuild so you don't actually know all these things, of course, these are different AWS services, but I'm just giving you an overview what you can do and you can also, for example, start an SSM automation or a specific EC2 action, such as starting or stopping or restarting an EC2 instance. So you can see the possibilities are endless and it really depends on what is your use case. So Amazon EventBridge is what we call the default event bus, which is what we just saw, which represents services from AWS that send their events into the default event bus, but Amazon EventBridge has more capability. There is something called the partner event bus and this is AWS that has integrated with partners, most likely they are going to be software as a service partners and they are going to send their events directly into your partner event bus. So if you're using, for example, Zendesk, Datadog, Auth0, or others, you need to check the partner list. Then there's a chance that they can send their events directly into a specified partner event bus and so you can react to changes happening outside of AWS directly in your accounts. Okay, and finally, there is a custom event bus so you can create your own event buses and then your own applications can send their own events into a custom event bus and therefore, you have the same capability of sending these events to different destinations thanks to the EventBridge rules. Also, you can access event buses, cross accounts, using resource based policies as we'll see very soon. You can also archive events so all of them or just a subset event to a filter and by archiving the events, you can set it to be either indefinite retention or a set period for retention, okay? What you can do with these is that you can replay these archived events. For example, say there is a bug in your Lambda function and you want to fix it, so you fixed it and then you want to retest the event, replay it, then you can replay these archived events, which is super handy for debugging, super handy for troubleshooting, and for fixing production as well. Now, EventBridge receives a lot of events from different places and so therefore, you need to understand what the events are going to look like and remember, these events are in this adjacent format we just saw. So therefore, there is a Schema Registry and the capability is that EventBridge is going to analyze the events in your bus and then it's going to infer the schema and the schema out of the Schema Registry is going to allow you to generate code for your application that will know in advance how the data is structured in the event bus. For example, this is an example here for a specific CodePipeline in action. There's a schema and you can download the code directly using the Orange button and this will know directly how to infer the schema and structure the data out of your event bus. Also, the schemas can be versioned so you can over time iterates between the schemas of your application, of course. Now, we have resource based policies for EventBridge, what does that mean? That means that you can manage permissions for a specific event bus. For example, you can say that a specific event bus can be allowed or denied other events from other regions or accounts and the use case for it, for example, would be to have a central events bus within your AWS organization, so a set of accounts and then all these events are going to be aggregated, so how does that work? Well, we have a central event bus with a specific account and we're going to add a specific resource based policy, allowing other accounts to send events to it and therefore, this other account, for example, will be able to do a put events and send events directly into the central event bus. So that's it, we've seen EventBridge left to right, you know everything about it. So remember, you can react to events happening within your accounts, thanks to the default event bus, but also partner events and also your own events with custom buses, you have the Schema Registry capability, and then you have resource based policies, which allow you to have a cross accounts, for example, capability for event buses. Okay, that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EventBridge - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon EventBridge. So you have several options. You can create a rule with an event pattern. We're gonna do this right now. Then you can have a schedule rule, which is the old way of doing schedule. So there is now something called EventBridge schedule. We're also going to have a look at it. Pipe is to send data from an event source to target with optional filtering and enrichment. And schema registry is to look at the schemas of all these events. So just to get started, we're going to do the first option, EventBridge rule with event pattern. So we need to create a rule, and what we want to do is to react to any event where an instance is going to be terminated or shut down. So you click here on Service Events, and here you have a list at all the events that can happen within your accounts by service. So it's a lot. For example, if you take any of these, for example, if you take Lambda, you can have a look at all these things. Console actions or EC2, you can have a look at all these things. So it's a lot more type of things you can choose from for events. So the one we're going to look at is one of the most popular. It's called EC2 instance State-change Notification. So that means that anytime an EC2 instance state will change, we're going to get a notification. So if we look at it at this event, we can have a look at the schema of the event and then a sample event. Like what it can look like. So the schema defines how the sample event will look like. And now we want to be able to filter this event and on the state value. So the state is a string and we have to exit the value. So we can say Equal, for example, and we are going to have several values. So the first one is shutting down and the second one is going to be terminated. How do I know this? Well, it's from the schema itself. If you have a look at the event pattern on the bottom line, on the bottom page, sorry, you can have a look at Sample events 1, 2, 3. And if you look at number 5, it says "state": "shutting-down". And number 6, it says "state": "terminated". So these are the events we want to be catching. So now our event pattern filter is defined right here on the right-hand side. So now we have all the events. And now for the target, again, we have several options. So we can have a look at all the options right here, such as API gateway, batch jobs. We can also reboot an EC2 instance, terminate one. We have SNS topic, SQS queues, I mean so many. But what we want to do right now is to receive an alert, so we choose SNS Topic and then we want it to be our demo topic. So create it if you don't have a topic. You can just create an SNS topic very easily. Then we'll need to have an exception role to be able to send a message into this topic. So a role is going to be automatically created for us. and then we get some more information around the retry policy and the dead-letter queue. So we're good to go. Let's click on Create. I'll call this one NotifyEC2InstanceShutdownOrTerminated, and we'll click on Create. And so now that this role has been created, anytime we shut down or terminate an EC2 instance, we will receive a notification. The other option is to use Schedule. So on the left-hand side you have schedules, and then you can create a schedule. And this one is going called InvokeLambdaEveryHour. And several options. Either it's a one-time schedule, so we do something once and then done, or recurring. And we have either a Cron-based schedule or a rate schedule. We'll use 1 hour and no flexible time window. And Next. And here we have the option to invoke several things. So what do we wanna do every hour? Well, we have all these options such as, for example, running a task on Amazon ECS or putting a records in Kinesis Data Firehose or invoking a Lambda function. So you can say, for example, in the Invoke Lambda function, and if you have a Lambda function, you can select it from here. So you get the idea. Once you've done this, you have a schedule in Amazon EventBridge. Other things that you need to be looking at is event buses. So right now we have the default event bus. And the default events bus is anything that will be AWS-generated type of events. But you can create your own event bus, and this is going to be a custom event bus. And here you have the ability yourself to send your own events into this event bus and so therefore you can develop custom applications that are based on Amazon EventBridge, which can be very helpful. You have the option to archive your events. When they happen on the event bus, then you have an archive you can look into. And you can also replay events if you wanted to replay a past event from an archive. Okay, other things need you look at is partner event sources. So it's possible for you to actually get data from third-party partners directly into your AWS accounts. So if you use, for example, Auth0, then the events of Auth0 will be put and inserted into Amazon EventBridge. And then you can, for example, use a Lambda function or do something after someone has done the login in of zero. But you can see you have so many different kinds of partners right here. And API destinations. That means that, for example, if you wanted to have an event within EventBridge, but then to connect to an external HTP destination, you can also define one here. And this allows you to connect EventBridge to an outside source, for example, to have integration with your own infrastructure. So it's quite a lot of different things. And finally, for schemas, this is all the schemas of all the AWS events that you have. Or you can have your own custom registry for your own events. But this allows you to understand the shape and form the events will have in Amazon EventBridge. And that's it. So I hope you liked it. You can go here in the rules and also disable them if you wanted to. But I hope you liked this lecture and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Step Functions

Let's do a high level overview of AWS step functions, very similar to data pipelines and concept here. Basically, it's a purpose in life is to let you design workflows throughout AWS. So as you're building a system to analyze your data and pre-process that data, step functions might be what connects all those steps together to create a larger system. It also lets you visualize these workflows very easily, as we'll see shortly. It generates these nice little graphs that show you the order that things actually execute within. And it also has an advanced error handling mechanism and a retry mechanism that lives outside of the code that you're actually running within your AWS step function. So that's a good utility for being able to manage portions of your workflow that don't work. You know, you don't have to rely on the code of each step actually being able to monitor itself. AWS Step Functions can take a look at it from the outside and deal with errors when things don't do what they're supposed to do. It also maintains an audit history of all the workflows that have run, so you can go back and see what happened historically if you need to troubleshoot something, it allows you to wait an arbitrary amount of time between steps. So if you just want to place some time in between these steps and, you know, sync up with some business workflow that you have, you can do that. And the maximum execution time of a given state machine that's a given workflow is one year. So you can actually define a workflow that spans an entire year if you want to. Can't imagine a situation where you need to do that, but if you need to, it can handle very long lived processes and workflows. The syntax of how it all works really is not important. They're defined using the JSON based Amazon States language or ASL. The exam will not expect you to be able to parse or write this kind of code, or know ASL. You just need to know what it does. So as long as you know what step functions are for and some examples of what you might use it for, that's what's important for the exam. So we're going to go through a few examples of how you might use step functions in the real world. Here's an example of using it to train a machine learning model. So you can see that when we start we generate the data set. In this example, it's doing that by kicking off a Lambda function. It then trains the model using SageMaker XGBoost algorithm. And when it's done, it saves that trained model from SageMaker and applies a batch transform to that model from some data set that we had at that point. It's done. So you can see here we've, uh, automated the entire process of generating our data training a machine learning model, using that data, saving that trained model, and then applying data to that trained model all in one set of steps here that are managed through step functions. We can also use it to tune a machine learning model. So in this example we're generating a training data set. And then we're going to kick off a hyperparameter tuning job in SageMaker that just tries different parameters on the machine learning model to figure out what the right set of parameters are for this given data set. When it's done, it extracts that model path, and then it saves the tuned model that it settled on. We extract the model name of the tune model and then use that to apply a transformation of a bunch of data in a batch format to that tuned model automatically. So again, just an example of what you might use step functions for. It's not important for the exam to understand how machine learning works, but it is important to know that step functions can automate the process of generating your data set and feeding it into a machine learning model. You can also use it, for example, to manage a batch job. So in this example we're submitting a batch job. And then we're just going to use step functions to notify us if it succeeds or fails. Very simple. So step functions don't have to be complicated. They can just be used to monitor a single job and use those features that it has to actually monitor and alert us when something succeeds or fails from a given step. So sometimes step functions just have one step. And that's really all the depth you need for AWS step functions. You just need to know that they manage workflows and they give you a nice graphical representation of those workflows. And they can monitor whether individual steps succeed or fail and notify you based on what happens there.

---

### Lecture: AWS Step Functions  State Machines and States

Let's go into a little bit more depth on AWS Step Functions, because this is a very powerful orchestration tool and it's extremely relevant to data engineering. So you can expect a lot of questions on this in the exam. First some terminology. So the workflow that you're defining in your step functions is called a state machine. That's just a fancy way of saying we have some system that defines a bunch of states that your data pipeline might be in, and it moves between those states somehow based on some criteria, right? Every step in that workflow is called a state because it's part of a state machine, right? That's it. Just some terminology, just some words. However, there are many different types of states that you can use with AWS step functions. So it is important to know these. The most useful one is the task state. So that is a state within your step function state machine that does something right. Maybe it kicks off a lambda function. Maybe it kicks off some other AWS service to transform your data, or move it around, or load it or whatever it needs to do. Maybe it even talks to third party APIs to do something external to AWS. In any case, that's a task node. It's performing some sort of real operation on your data as you go. There's also a choice state, and this adds conditional logic through choice rules. These can be things like comparisons. You know, if my data is bigger than this amount, maybe I do something special with it. If this data contains PII or something, maybe I do something special with it, right? So choice states are just a opportunity to apply conditional logic. There's also a wait state that can be used to delay the state machine for some specific amount of time. If you, just for whatever reason, want to give things, you know, time to catch up, kind of a hacky way to do it, but you can bake in a time delay into your step functions as well with a wait state. There's also the parallel state, and this allows you to do separate things in parallel and separate branches of execution. So a parallel state isn't well, it's kind of a blurry concept of state, right. It's really saying I'm going to create many states running in parallel at this point going on so I can have different things happening at the same time once I hit a parallel state. Now there's also the map state, so this can get confusing. This is something you should probably remember So a map is also run in parallel. But it says I'm going to run this following set of steps for each item in a data set Dataset in parallel. So this is especially relevant to data engineering because it's specifically made for operating on data. It's going to be able to work with JSON files, S3 objects, CSV files, whatever you might have, but it's going to take a set of steps and apply those to that data set in parallel. So remember, a map operation will split things up into parallel processing on your data, just like Apache Spark might or anything else, and it will run in parallel without needing a separate parallel state in front of it. It's a parallel implicitely. Okay, so a little bit of confusing there. Between parallel and map states, their parallel is used for kicking off separate branches within your state machine that can do whatever. But Map is specifically about operating on your data in a parallel way. Finally, there's pass, succeed and fail. Pass just passes your data along to the next step. It's usually just used for debugging. Succeed and fail or where you're going to end up. So once you're done with your state machine, you either succeed with that state machine or fail. And that's how you kind of wrap things up. So that's step functions in a bit more detail there. Do you remember what the valid types of states are and what they do? It might come in handy.

---

### Lecture: Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (MWAA)

Apache airflow is a popular workflow management solution, and Amazon has support for that as well in the form of Amazon managed workflows for Apache Airflow. It's basically a managed hosted environment for Apache Airflow. Apache airflow is a batch oriented workflow tool, and it can develop, schedule, and monitor your workflows and control the flow of your data and your data engineering pipeline. The thing is, though, you define them using Python code, so it's not going to be using some drag and drop graphical user interface. To define these workflows, you have to actually write Python code to set them up. And what that Python code needs to do is create what's called a directed acyclic graph or a Dag, a dag for short. Kind of the same way that Apache Spark works, right? What Amazon Noir brings to the table is a managed service for Apache Airflow, so you still have to write the code for it and figure out how it gets configured. But you don't have to deal with maintaining or installing the service itself. So it's just a way to run airflow a little bit more easily. So if you do have a more complex workflow or you need to do some sort of complex coordination with ETL or maybe preparing machine learning data, this might be something you want to do in Python and Apache Airflow could be a good fit for that. Here's a very simple example of it. So let's say for example, here we're creating a couple of tasks. One is called hello, which is just calling out to the bash operator to run on the bash console echo hello. And then we have another thing called airflow, which is just a function that just prints the word airflow. We then set a dependency between those two tasks. We say hello carrot, carrot airflow. And that creates that dependency in Python. And then once we do that, airflow will not only make sure that that does what it needs to do on whatever schedule you want. It can also create a pretty little visualization of that workflow as well, which you see in that diagram. Here you see down at the bottom we have hello. That points to airflow is the next step. And surrounding that you can see all the information about how often it's run, what its schedule is, things like that. So it has this nice little web interface you can use to visualize what it's doing and to control the scheduling, but the actual directed acyclic graphs of what it actually does is something you have to write Python code for. Now remember the exam will never ask you to write code, so don't get too hung up on the syntax here. You just have to understand you create DAGs with Python using airflow. So how does this integrate with Amazon. So your directed acyclic graphs the Python code that actually creates these workflows get uploaded into S3, and then that gets loaded into Amazon managed workflows for Apache Airflow, where airflow takes it from there. You can also zip that Python code together with any required plugins or other dependencies that code might might have, so it all stays self-contained within S3. Once noir picks it up, it will orchestrate that and schedule everything that you need that's defined by each directed acyclic graph. It's hard to say. Moi runs within a VPC. You should have it deployed to at least two availability zones for redundancy purposes. You can also hook it up to both private and public endpoints that are managed via IAM. And this is going to control the access to the airflow web server. Remember that scene we saw in the previous slide, where you have that nice little UI for visualizing these workflows and scheduling them? If you want access to that outside of your VPC, you'll need a public endpoint to do that. It automatically scales. So under the hood there are airflow workers making it all happen. The nice thing about Moi is that it will automatically scale those up up to any limits you might define to control costs. Integrating this with other services. So Moi just relies on open source integrations to other Amazon services. But there's a lot of them out there. So you can tie moi into Athena and AWS. Batch CloudWatch DynamoDB, Datasync, EMR, Fargate, ECS, Kinesis Glue, Lambda, redshift, SQS, SNS, SageMaker S3, and more. And obviously all the security services you might need to access those services like AWS Secrets Manager. The schedulers and workers themselves are implemented within AWS Fargate containers. And here's a little quick peek at the underlying architecture here. Basically, there are two VPCs under the hood with moi. There's a customer VPC that contains all the schedulers and workers, and those are talking out to the services that you're working with from those DAGs. So that can go out and talk to CloudWatch, S3, SQS, whatever you need. And then through VPC endpoints, it's also communicating with a metadata database, restoring those workflows and also the airflow web server which is your user interface for visualizing and scheduling these workflows. So again, if you don't have a public network interface, there's no way to access that web server from the outside. But if you are within that service VPC, you can still get it from there. A3.

---

### Lecture: AWS Lake Formation

Let's talk about AWS Lake Formation, a relatively new feature. It was announced back in 2018 and really saw a lot of refinement over 2020, and we're just now starting to see it show up in the exam. Lake formation is built on top of glue, and it's really meant as a system for making it easier to set up a secure data lake. Their tagline is it makes it easy to set up a secure data lake in days, which I guess is pretty quick. The things that it manages for you is loading your data from an external source and monitoring those data flows, so it allows you to connect to your existing data sources, whether they're already in S3 or in some on premises database. It can set up partitions for you. It can help you manage encryption and manage the keys surrounding that. And it can let you set up the transformations associated with that data from the get go. Again, it's built on top of glue, so pretty much anything glue, ETL, or any of the glue features can do is available to you. If spark can do it, then Lake Formation can do it too. It's just using glue under the hood to apply those transformations, and that includes transforming it into a new format, like a columnar format like parquet or Orc. That's on the table cleaning your data, you know, getting rid of missing rows, whatever you want to do. Anything that we've talked about with glue you can do with lake formation. It can also help you manage the access control to the data in your data lake. It can help with auditing, and really it's purpose in life is to kind of guide you through the process of building your data lake in a secure fashion. So let's talk about it from a more conceptual standpoint here. Basically, you have a big S3 data lake sitting there when you're done, right. So lake formation is going to sit alongside that S3 data lake, help you create it, help you maintain it going forward so it can take as a data source anything in S3 from some relational database that you might have sitting around, or even NoSQL data sources. And those can be on premises as well. It doesn't have to be in AWS yet. So again, the purpose of lake formation is to help you set up that data lake, and that data might be coming from someplace else within lake formation. You can set up all the crawlers and ETL jobs and data catalogs and security and access control. Any data cleaning or transformations, including to parquet or ORC. Again, basically anything glue can do, you can set up as part of lake formation, and once you have a lake formation set up, it can then integrate with Athena or Redshift easily or redshift spectrum. So Athena and Redshift can then query that data automatically if you have it all registered in lake formation. And a relatively new feature in 2020 is EMR can also talk to lake formation directly as well. Pricing Lake formation itself doesn't cost anything, but the underlying services do. Of course, that includes glue, S3, EMR, Athena, and Redshift. Normal charges will apply for whatever you build using it. The process for building a data lake using lake formation. It's a little more complicated than you might think. It doesn't really do it all for you. This is why they say it takes days. And not just minutes. Basically, you have to start by creating an IAM user for a data analyst role. You know the person that's going to be using this data lake and building it. You then need to create a glue connection to the incoming data source or sources. Create an S3 bucket for the lake itself. And then once you've done that, you can register that S3 path in lake formation and start granting permissions to it. So this is where lake formation starts to be useful. You then create a database within lake formation for the underlying data catalog and grant any necessary permissions to it. And at that point you can start using blueprints to build up workflows, for example, making database snapshots, whatever you want to do to transform that data and get it into your data lake. You then run the workflow and grant select permissions to whoever needs to access the resulting data Lake Athena or Redshift Spectrum or now it could be EMR as well. That's it conceptually, which is pretty much all you need to know for the exam. Sometimes they like to dig in on these little troubleshooting things and scenarios of things that can go wrong with it. One finer point with AWS Lake formation is the issue of cross-account permissions. So if you do need to have people across different accounts accessing your data lake and accessing lake formation, you need to make sure that the recipient is set up as a data lake administrator. And also take note that AWS Resource Access Manager Ram can be a useful tool for managing accounts external to your organization and what resources they can access within your account. Also, there are IAM permissions for cross-account access that would be relevant here as well. Keep in mind lake formation does not support manifests in queries from Athena or Redshift. So that is one thing that can cause errors if you're using a manifest in a query. One thing to keep in mind. Also remember IAM permissions on the KMS encryption keys are needed for encrypted data catalogs in lake formation, and IAM permissions are needed to create blueprints and workflows within lake formation. So these are all potential, uh, troubleshooting things. You might want to know if you're encountering an error about being able to create a blueprint or a workflow, it's probably an IAM issue. If you're having a cross account permission issue, you probably need to do something with Ram. So things to keep in the back of your head. Some newer features that are worth talking about with lake formation is governed tables and also some new security features. Governance tables is a new thing that supports Acid transactions across multiple tables, so we now can safely, concurrently do row level accesses and updates and deletions without worrying about those multiple users stomping on each other. So acid means that we have strict transactional guarantees there in place. This uses a new type of S3 table under the hood, so it's still on S3. And once you create that choice of being governed or not, you can't change your mind later on. But it does give you acid support with your data lake, which is kind of neat, right? I mean, kind of the whole point of using a relational database management system instead of a data lake was that Acid support? And now you don't have to make that trade off anymore. It also works with streaming data. It doesn't have to be with streaming data, but you can pipe data in from something like Kinesis into AWS Lake formation into a governance table, and actually query that streaming data with Acid guarantees as well. Pretty cool stuff. You can even query it with Athena automatically, and just automatically get that acid support through Athena by using the new governed table feature in AWS Lake formation. Now, one downside of acid support on something like a data lake is that there's sort of an overhead that piles up over time for supporting that. I won't get into the details, but it is important to periodically compact and compress that data back down to avoid the overhead of accessing that storage, increasing over time. And AWS Lake formation with governed tables has an automatic compaction feature that will optimize your storage automatically over time. So you don't have to think about that, even though there is sort of an increasing overhead that piles up as you go. It will take care of that for you automatically with automatic compaction. Also new in AWS lake formation is granular access control with row and cell level security. So whether you're on a governed table or an old school S3 table, you now can control access on both the row and the cell level to specific users. So that's an important feature for some applications currently supported. Now. Now all of the above features we've talked about do incur additional charges, but they're just based on usage. So you're only being charged for what you're using. Seems fair to me. But those are some of the latest and greatest developments in AWS Lake formation. Acid support using governed tables that are automatically compacted and optimized for you. And also we now have row and cell level security for access control. I do want to spend a little bit more time on data permissions in lake formation, because reportedly this does crop up in the exam in a couple of places. So let's go into a little bit of depth. Lake formation does make it easier to set permissions on your underlying data in S3. So this is often a way to enforce really fine grained control. We talked about the new fine grained access control features in the previous slide, but even without that, we have the ability to restrict permissions all the way down to the column level. Just using this UI that you see on the right here, it's pretty easy to use. So just by studying this UI screen, you can understand a lot of what the capabilities are. Starting at the top, you can see that you can tie your permissions to IAM users or roles to Saml users and groups, or to external AWS accounts. Even those are all possible, and you can just build up a list of the different principles that you want to tie a specific set of permissions to. It allows you to use policy tags if you want to, and that can be tied to databases, tables or columns. And you can base your security based on those tags. That's always a good practice. Or you can just explicitly set permissions based on either a table or a specific columns within the table below. And you can see there's a very handy UI there for saying, do you want to let them do selects or inserts or deletes or anything else that you can dream up there for a specific table, or even for specific columns on a table? So if you see questions about implementing column based security on your data, Lake, Lake formation might be the way to do it. Ethan.

---

### Lecture: Lake Formation Data Filters

Let's discuss data filters in lake formation, which is another way of including security restrictions. We can do column row or cell level security using data filters. When you're setting up lake formation in the console, this is what it looks like. Over on the right. Here you'll see a little create data filter screen. Here you can give that data filter a name. Tell it what database and table you're applying this filter to. And then the key of this is down where it says column level access and row filter expression. So by choosing different things there you can achieve column row or even cell level security. So these are applied when we're granting the select permissions on a table. So that's when we get this option. So let's say I want to have row level security I would do that by selecting access to all columns under column level. But then implementing a row filter expression to have a row level security implemented on this data filter. If I wanted column level security, I would leave the row filter blank and have all rows. But then I can say include columns or exclude columns to provide column level security under the column level access. And for cell level security I can do both. I could say include specific columns or exclude specific columns, and also apply a row filter expression as well. If I'm selecting both columns and rows that are allowed in my filter, then I now have cell level security. You can do this via the console as we're seeing here to the right. Or you can also do it through the API through the CLI that's create data cells. Filter is the name of the API call for that.
---

*Section 9 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*