<!-- Section 2 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 2 OF 15: Introduction to Amazon S3
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon S3

Welcome to the first section of this course where we are going to briefly introduce Amazon S3. So what is Amazon S3? Well, S3 is short for simple storage service, and it's really one of the first AWS services that became publicly available when started offering these services to the public. Amazon S3 is object storage and it allows you to store any amount of data that you need to on S3. So if you need to store a couple of files on S3, you can do that. Or if you have gigabytes or terabytes of data that you need to store in S3, you can do that as well. Doesn't matter how much storage that you need on S3, it can handle it. There are companies out there that are just storing an enormous amount of data on S3 and it handles it so you can really think of it as unlimited storage. Amazon S3 is also durable. That's one of the primary features of being able to offer a storage service, is that, well, it needs to be durable. So if I place my files on S3, I need to make sure that they're going to be there when I need them. So. S3 offers 11 nines of durability, so that's why I have 9999999 9% durability for your data on here. And that means that if you place data on S3, well, you can be rest assured that that data is going to be available when you retrieve it and it's going to look like what it did when you placed it there. So, in other words, Amazon's not going to lose your data. Amazon S3 is also very scalable as well. You can store and access as much data as you need to wherever you need it. So S3 is available in pretty much every region that AWS has today. You can store things in US East one, which is the most popular region, one of the first regions in AWS. You can store it in California, Oregon, Europe. Pretty much any region that AWS has available, you can use S3 and S3 also extends beyond the traditional network as well, where you can put things like outposts in your own data center and actually have the S3 service available there as well. So it can extend beyond the traditional borders of an AWS region or an availability zone. So let's talk about each one of those. We'll start with object based storage. So what is object based storage? Well, it allows you to store and manage data as objects rather than files or blocks. So if you think about the desktop or laptop that you're working on today, you know, it has a file system that's used by the operating system, and everything that is stored on that file system is stored in files or blocks. If you think of like a hard drive or something like that, how it stores everything in blocks. Well, if you think about object based storage, everything is referenced using the object name versus a block or a file on a traditional file system. So you can kind of think of a object based storage. It's kind of like a Google Drive or a Dropbox where it's not necessarily a file system and you can reference individual files as you need them. So that's another way you can kind of think of object based storage. Now each individual object here is self-contained, so objects aren't dependent on each other. You can store as many or as few objects as you need, and each one of those objects includes metadata that describes the object. So what is the object? When was it placed there? How big was it? All those good things, all that information is stored alongside of the object. So objects can be accessed directly using its unique identifier. And that unique identifier is generally going to be the file name. And inside of Amazon S3 that converts to what's called a key. So you would reference it using that key or just the file name rather than traditionally how you would access things through a file system hierarchy. Now, by doing this, this improves performance because again, objects stand individually rather than being inside of some kind of hierarchy on a file system. So that's object based storage at a high level there. So let's talk about the S3 service in general. So it's one of the most popular infrastructure as a service is offerings on really any cloud provider. Any time you're downloading something from your favorite app or something like that, odds are it might be stored on S3 even if you're just interacting with a website, if you're downloading a game or downloading a certificate or things like that, most likely it could be stored on S3 because it is by far the most popular storage service available. Now, again, customers consume unlimited storage without having to worry about maintenance or operational tasks on the back end because, well, that's the benefit of an AI As a service. You can consume that service and you don't have to worry about the maintenance and operational tasks on the back end because that's something that takes care of for you. So again, a huge benefit of using is services. And of course S3 helps organizations focus on core business objectives rather than having to manage large scale complex storage systems like you would have to in a traditional data center so you don't have to worry about replacing disks and making sure that your data center is cool enough and all those good things to support that storage platform where you can simply consume S3 as a storage platform, you don't have to worry about anything else. You just consume the service, you place your files there, you get those files off when you need it, and it's super easy for you and you can focus on your business objectives. If you're a health care company, well, you should be focused on health care and not necessarily running a complex storage system. Let somebody else take care of that. You focus on providing the best health care you can. Now, when we think about a service like that, any of the cloud providers, especially AWS, has what we call a shared responsibility model, and it breaks out what is responsible for as opposed to what the customer is responsible for. And in this case, if you look at the shared responsibility model, you can see I've highlighted in white storage. Obviously S3 is a storage platform. So AWS is fully responsible for the entire platform. Now, as a customer, what you are responsible for is obviously placing and retrieving your data from the storage platform and also configuring the storage platform to work as you intended. Do you need encryption? Do you need versioning? Do you need replication? Those things are made available to customers. It's up to the customers to choose the features that it needs in order to protect and secure your data. So that's just an example of showcasing the different responsibilities for customers versus what itself is responsible for. So what kind of files can we store on Amazon? S3 Well, pretty much any kind of file, so I've kind of broken out some examples here text files, video files, archive data database, backup files, audio files, configuration files, image files, company documents, any kind of file that you would probably store in a traditional file system with some caveats on the. Aside that we'll talk about in a minute. So if you are I don't know, maybe you're recording an Amazon S3 course like I'm doing right now. Maybe I want to store those video files on S3 and then I can go back and retrieve those later to edit them, to upload them to Udemy, to upload them to wherever in order to maintain all my video files so I don't have to store them on my local laptop. It's going to be way cheaper for me to store them on S3 versus purchasing storage for my house and storing them there too. So we know what we can store on S3. What shouldn't we use S3 for? Well, we shouldn't use S3 for running applications. And what I mean by applications is that it's not designed to run applications or execute code. It is a storage service. And while it can host things like static websites, it's not designed to run apps or execute code. The next thing is operating systems or software installations. S3 is not designed to store or run operating systems or software installs. Instead, AWS provides other services like EC2 or ECS for those purposes. S3 is not block level storage. Again, S3 is object level storage, meaning it's not designed for apps that require access to individual blocks of data on a storage device like a hard drive or something like that. S3 isn't necessarily used for high performance computing. S3 is not designed for high performance computing or applications that require low latency access to data. Now, while S3 can provide relatively low access to data for high performance computing, you may choose something else like EBS or EFS for those types of workloads. And finally, down here at the bottom, S3 is not going to be used for transactional or relational data storage. It's not designed to provide that type of service for databases, does provide other services for those types of services like RDS or DynamoDB. But Amazon S3 is not going to be used for database transactional purposes. Now you can store like a database backup file on S3, but your database isn't going to use S3 as its back end for transactional services. So that's an example of some of the things you should not use Amazon S3 for. Now, keep in mind that's not an exhaustive list. That's just an example of some of the things that you should not use Amazon S3 for.

---

### Lecture: The Storage Solution That Never Fails

Let's talk about durability and scalability of Amazon S3 here. So the first thing you're probably thinking of is, well, can I really trust S3 to keep my long term or permanent data? And if I do trust it, will my data be intact when I go to access it? The answer to that is yes, because Amazon S3 is designed for 11 nines of durability. When you place an object on Amazon, S3, S3 actually stores that data on multiple devices across a minimum of three availability zones in an S3 region before it returns success back to the user. You should be familiar with the term of region and availability zones. Availability zone is going to be a distinct data center that has separate power, cooling, networking, all that good stuff. And then a region is made up of a bunch of different availability zones and they're geographically located across the world. So again, when you write data to S3, S3, at a minimum, is going to write that data across multiple devices, across three availability zones. So that way if an availability zone or two availability zones go down, your data is actually still there and can be retrieved. So that ensures that all your data is always going to be available for you when you need to access data. And Amazon's not going to lose your data when you place it there. So if we think about durability here, let's take a look at what that actually means. We talked about 11 nines of durability. Well, if you store 10,000 objects on S3 on average may lose one of those objects every 10 million years or so. So it's very impressive in terms of what the S3 service can provide you and make sure that your data or your objects, when they're uploaded, well, they're always going to be there when you need to and they're going to be intact. It's going to be the data that you uploaded and it's going to be there when you need it. Now, when we think about scale beyond durability, how much data can actually put out there? Amazon S3 has incredible scale here. Tens of thousands of Amazon S3 customers actually have buckets that are spread over across a million drives or more. How impressive is that? Do you have the ability to scale your data across over 1 million drives? Probably not. Again, So that's the huge benefit of using Amazon. S3 is that when you place your data on Amazon? S3 Well, it's going to be durable, but it's also going to be very scalable because they're going to spread your data across so many devices that even if they have multiple failures within that data center or availability zone, your data is still going to be available for you. So very impressive in terms of what the S3 service can provide. S3 has a culture of durability, and that's according to AWS. You think about what durability means, there's a lot that goes into making sure that the service itself is durable. Now assumes that any single facility may fail at any time, and they must still protect the durability of customer data that's stored inside of that facility. So they think about things like facility isolation, facility, aware data placement. So that's all about facility failure inside of that facility. We also have to think about the individual pieces of hardware that are hosting all of our data and protects that data that they store against a fleet of components that, well, despite their best efforts, it's probably going to fail at a low rate. If you think about all the hardware that's required to run such a service, specifically hard drives and things like that, well, those fail. And so what they do is they have to protect that storage knowing that some of those hard drives are going to fail and they need to ensure that your data is always going to be there. So they think about things like rereplication repair. If hardware does fail, how do we ensure that the data remains intact? How do they measure repair rates and failure rates to make sure that they can provide that 11 nines of durability for customers? Amazon also thinks about data corruption on that hardware. So even if the hardware or the facility doesn't fail, what about data corruption? So that's something else that Amazon S3 has to focus on and they protect customer data against these component level faults and concurrency bugs that silently corrupt data by flipping bits. Well, they use TCP checksums to protect your data there. Now, when you think about durability, you also think about bugs. Amazon S3 is always releasing new features or security patches or those kind of things, so they must prevent incorrect software designs from reaching production, impacting you as a customer that to prevent implementation bugs from harming customer data. So what they do is they write specification patterns and model checker runs through the specifications. So they do a lot of testing, they do a lot of zonal deployments or even smaller than that, just to be sure that they don't accidentally introduce bugs into production and of course impact you as a customer. Amazon also focuses on deployment practices, so they have to protect against things like incorrect behavior caused by multiple versions of software. So what they do is they focus on things like protocol, versioning, read, write, deployments, rollback, testing. Again, all the things that you're probably doing in production or should be doing in production or want to be doing in production. Amazon S3 is doing those to ensure that their deployment practices don't negatively impact customers. And then finally, operator error. Humans ultimately run the Amazon S3 service. Humans make mistakes. And so what does is ensure that their operators are not exposed to situations where mistakes can lead to data loss or outages. So they think automation, automation, automation and of course they practice the principle of least privilege. So only giving folks access to the things they need to do for their job and nothing more. So those are the things that focuses on to ensure they have this culture of durability, to ensure that the Amazon S3 service is always available and your data remains intact. So you think about durability? Well, it doesn't necessarily equal availability. Those are two different distinct things. So Amazon S3 uses regular data integrity checks and automatic error correction to achieve durability. And durability, again, is really the ability to store your data over a period of time without losing it. Now, on the other hand, availability is actually the availability of the S3 service to provide timely and uninterrupted access to your data. So in short, is the S3 service available? When I go to retrieve or upload my data, is it actually functioning the way I need it to? So again, durability does not necessarily equal availability and they actually have two different SLAs, one for durability, which we talked about, is 11 nines and availability, which may be different depending on the storage class of S3 that you're using. So more on that later. So again, we talked about durability. Let's touch on availability real quick. Again, S3 is designed to provide users with 99.99% availability. That means that S3 may go down about 52 minutes per year. And we have seen S3 outages in the past. And because S3 is such a critical component to all of AWS and S3 outage can negatively impact other services on Amazon Web services. So we've seen in the past where when S3 goes down, it may impact other services. Well in the past their dashboard, their website that showcases availability of services. Well those little icons for the checks and the X's where things were up or down, those are actually stored on S3. So when S3 had an outage and it impacted other services, AWS themselves couldn't even update their own status page because all those objects were stored in S3 and S3 was down. So kind of this circular dependency in there that I think they've fixed since then. But we have seen outages in S3 and again, they may not just impact your availability to upload or retrieve data, but they may impact other areas across AWS. So for example, if you use EC2, if you create Amis or snapshots or those kind of things inside of EC2, well, those are actually stored on S3 on the back end. So you may have your EC2 impacted if S3 actually goes down even though you're not directly using it, the EC2 service actually uses and consumes the S3 service. So again, the S3 service is really a very important underlying service across the board for Amazon Web services as a whole.

---

### Lecture: Organizing Your Data in Buckets

All right. So now that we've learned more about S3, let's talk about how we organize our data. Now we're going to organize our data into containers, which we call buckets. And you can have a bunch of buckets inside of each one of your AWS accounts. And this bucket is really a container for storing our objects. And of course, our objects are things like files, images, videos, documents or any type of data that you want to upload into one of these buckets. So you kind of think of it like a folder on your computer or instead of being stored locally, it's just stored on Amazon servers. You can store any number of objects inside of a bucket, and each object in a bucket is uniquely identified by a key, which is really just basically the object's name. So in this example here, I've got four different buckets. Three of these buckets have objects in it, one does not. And again, you can have as many objects inside of a bucket as you need. So when it comes to naming our buckets on the previous one, we saw we had four different buckets and each one had a unique, distinct name. Well, when you name your S3 Bucket, the buckets have a globally unique name used for access. And that actually means that if I go out and I create a bucket called Brian Carlson, which I actually own that bucket, you cannot go create a bucket called Brian Carlson, which don't know why you'd want to, but the point is that the names have to be globally unique. So if I go out and create a bucket called Prod S3, my favorite bucket, you cannot create a bucket with that same name. Buckets need to be unique, and that's not just within your account. That's across all AWS accounts. So you essentially need a unique bucket name for every bucket that you create. And that means nobody else has that bucket name. That's one of the reasons I created a bucket name called Brian Carlson, which I doubt anybody would want that bucket name, but I created it just so I have my own name. I thought it'd be cool. Back to the name here because we have this globally unique name. This means that no other bucket on Amazon S3 may share that same name in any different accounts. The other thing I want to call out here is that buckets are regional. When you create a bucket, you choose the region in which you want your data to be stored. So that's going to be important, especially for your business. So if you are located in India or Europe or the US or whatever, you probably want your data relatively close to reduce latency and well mean. There's no real reason for me to be able to store data in India when I'm in the US. I don't need to traverse half the world just to get access to some of my data. So most people are going to choose a region that's relatively close to them. Now we'll talk about later in the course how we can actually replicate data across regions. So if you do have some compliancy requirements or you have some regulatory compliance that you have to replicate your data or make copies of your data, you can definitely do that in S3. But keep in mind that every single bucket that you create, you must choose a region where you want that bucket to be created and that ultimately dictates where your data will be stored when you upload it. So by default, when you upload your data to a bucket, it's going to be stored only in that single region where you created that bucket. So if I created a bucket called my bucket and I said, okay, I want to create this in US East one and I started uploading a bunch of objects to it. Well, all my data is going to be stored in US East one. Now, based upon what we talked about before, even though it's only in US East One, which is a region inside of US East one, that data is actually replicated to at least three availability zones inside of that region. So it's not just written to a single hard drive somewhere that we talked about before. It's replicated within that region. So you would have to have that entire region to go down in order for your data to be inaccessible. Now, we'll talk about later in the course different options to improve data protection, availability and security for your data.

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon S3 Objects

All right. Now that we know more about buckets, let's talk about S3 objects here. Well, files uploaded to an S3 bucket are called objects, as I alluded to before. Now, an object is the basic unit of data inside of S3. It can be a file or a collection of data from your organization. Now, remember earlier when I talked about all the different files that you can store in S3? These would all be objects inside of your bucket. So, for example, if I upload an image, if I upload an MP4 or I upload a PDF, each individual, one of these objects is stored inside of our bucket. And of course that means it's stored inside of a particular region. So you can store any amount of objects inside of your bucket. So let's talk about objects at a high level here. So when you upload data to your S3, again, those are going to be called objects. And each individual object can be up to five terabytes in size. Now, even though we have a limit of five terabytes, we have unlimited storage inside of our bucket. There's no maximum bucket size for any of our buckets and there's no maximum to the limit of number of objects that we can actually place inside of our bucket. So there's no maximum size and there's no maximum number of objects. So we basically have an unlimited or a a bottomless bucket, if you will. Now, when we are writing data to Amazon S3, we have what's called write after read consistency for new objects. As I upload a new object to Amazon S3 into my bucket here, if I read that object immediately, I'm going to always get the latest version of that object because, well, that's the new object. Recently, Amazon also introduced what they call strong consistency for updates as well. In the past, Amazon S3 used to have what's called eventual consistency for updates. So if I had an object up there and I uploaded a new version of that object and I read that immediately, I may not get that updated version. I may actually get the older version because Amazon S3 still needed to replicate that new version across all of the devices, whereas stored from already. But now what they've introduced is strong consistency for updates. So as soon as I write an update to my object and I read that immediately, Amazon guarantees that I always get the latest version of that object. So you don't have to worry about eventual consistency anymore. That's an older concept. Now. You always have strong consistency for writing new objects and actually updating existing objects.

---

### Lecture: Additional Features of Amazon S3

So let's talk about some additional features of Amazon S3. Quickly introduce them. Now, of course, we're going to go into a lot more detail in these throughout the course. Now, the first one I'll talk about is tiered storage. So Amazon S3 does offer a wide range of different storage classes and those are going to be for different storage use cases. Not everybody wants to just upload some video files and eventually they'll get to them. Eventually they'll not. Whatever different people have different requirements and use cases for storing their data on Amazon S3. Some may store it and use it immediately and constantly access that data. Some may just need to store that for like a legal hold or, you know, compliancy reasons, and they may never touch it again. And so those are two entirely different use cases that Amazon provides different storage classes for, depending on your use case, depending on how often you're going to access that and how quick you need to access that data. Lifecycle policies is another feature of Amazon S3 that allow you to create rules to migrate data between those tiers. So we talked about the different tiers that are going to be available. We've got an entire section on that where we can use lifecycle policies to automatically move data between those different tiers in order to save us money or just delete data entirely. Maybe we only want to store data up there for a month and after a month just go ahead and delete it like we don't care about it. We can use things like lifecycle policies in order to automate that for us. And the other thing here is object versioning. When you upload objects to an S3 bucket, if you have versioning enabled, well, you can store multiple versions of that same object. So say for example, you're working on a project and you say, okay, I want to store this PDF and then you spend another week and you update the PDF and you're like, Cool. I want to update the newest version of this PDF, and then you upload another version. You're like, Wait, I need to go back to the other one because I messed up the version three. You can go back to version two if you want to. You can go back to version one. You can delete version one and only have two out there. So it makes it very flexible in terms of storing multiple versions. It's also a way to protect your data as well. So if you accidentally delete it, if you accidentally overwrite it, you can actually go back and retrieve a previous version on there. We have a whole discussion around versioning later in the course as well. So when it comes to accessing Amazon S3, well, we have a lot of different ways we can access our bucket and work with our data. So we can obviously just use the AWS console, the UI, we pull up our browser and go to AWS and we can start interacting with it directly there. We can make requests using the public AWS API. We can use a terminal, we can use AWS CLI to integrate directly with S3 from our desktop or even a server. We can access it from other resources within our VPC. So if we have things like EC2 or ECS or Kubernetes or anything like that, any other type of resources like Lambda or whatever, inside of our AWS account, well we can access our data directly from those resources. We can even use a VPC endpoint to access the private S3 API. So if our resources don't have public internet access, there's a way that we can kind of be sneaky and kind of go around through the AWS network itself. Instead of going through the public API, we can hit a private API and still access S3 That way we can use what's called an S3 access point to Access S3. If you're developing an app, you can use things like the AWS SDK, or you can simply use the object URL. When you upload an object, you can get a URL on there, you can access it that way as well. Plenty of options and different ways that we can access our data and work with our data when we upload it into S3, which really makes it a very flexible platform because, you know, not everyone's going to access and interact with their data the same way a developer may interact with their data using the SDK, where maybe a typical ops person or, you know, maybe just a typical home user, they may just log into the console or the CLI and grab their data. Plenty of flexible ways that we can interact with our data and our buckets. We also have a lot of security features inside of that. We're going to dive deep into things like Iam permissions and policies, access control lists, data encryption to encrypt our data at rest. We have object lock to ensure that our data cannot be deleted. We have block public access, which is really become a popular configuration lately with a bunch of issues where companies were sharing their data unintentionally. So we now have block public access features. We also have legal hold features as well. So if you're storing data up there and you have legal hold requirements in order to store that data for an infinite amount of time, we have that option as well. A few other features that we'll be talking about auditing features, S3 events, things like that, the ability to use S3 for static website hosting as well, and also a requester page. So if the requester is making requests to your data, you can actually have them pay for those requests versus you having to pay for those API requests. So you can see overall from an introduction standpoint, there's a lot to just the Amazon S3 service itself and I'm really excited to showcase all of these features in detail throughout the course. So that's a brief introduction on Amazon S3 and I look forward to seeing you in the next lectures.

---

*Section 2 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
