<!-- Section 9 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 9 OF 15: Integrating with CloudFront for Content Distribution
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon CloudFront

All right. Welcome to this section where we are going to talk about integrating Amazon S3 with CloudFront. So before we get started, let's go over a brief overview of CloudFront just to make sure you understand what it is. Now, CloudFront is a content delivery network, right? It's a CDN. It's going to allow us to distribute our objects, maybe our assets for our website or object stored in an Amazon S3 bucket. It's going to allow us to distribute that content all around the world into all these points of presence that Amazon manages. And by doing so, that's going to help improve our read and write performance for our users. So say for example, we have our data stored in the US, but we have a lot of customers in Europe as well and we don't want them to have to traverse the entire Atlantic Ocean in order to grab our data. So we can use is CloudFront to distribute our data over to points of presence in Europe. And now our users can access the data locally versus having to come all the way back to the US. So one of the big benefits of CloudFront is these edge locations that are all around the world. And and you can see on the map here that they are all over the world, right? They're pretty much on every continent here. Now, CloudFront also has native integration with AWS Shield. And so on top of distributing your content with CloudFront, you also introduce additional security features that you can use in order to serve your content to your customers. Let's take a look at it on a map here. So how would we access our content if we had a bucket, say in California? So say in California we had all of our website assets stored inside of our bucket and maybe we've got customers all around the world and these customers are going to access our bucket in order to access the data, like the static content that's on our website. Well, some of these users may not have a great customer experience, right, because, well, they're coming from around the world in order to access their data. And it may be a little bit slow. So what we want to do is be able to use CloudFront to distribute our static content around the world so they have a much better experience accessing either a website or application or whatever we're serving up. So let's take a look at how this works. Again, we have our bucket and we've got our static assets inside of our bucket. And what we're going to do now is we're going to integrate that with Amazon CloudFront and we're going to create what's called a CloudFront distribution. Now, the CloudFront distribution has a lot of options, but what we can do is tell CloudFront distribution to go ahead and distribute all of our contents across all of these edge locations. Now, once we set that up, all of our data is going to be distributed to each of these edge locations. Now, it's not going to go ahead and copy everything at once. This data is generally going to be copied when it is requested, and then it's going to be cached locally for additional requests when other users access your data. So when we front end our S3 bucket with a CloudFront distribution, we get a little bit different user experience from our users. So again, our content lives in California, all of our website assets and now what we have is all these edge locations that we can use. And of course we distributed our content to all of these edge locations and now each one of our individual customers, well, they can access our content by accessing the edge location that's closest to them. And the back end, what's going to happen is the edge location is going to retrieve that data from CloudFront, ultimately from S3, it's going to cache it locally. Then any additional users that are accessing our website? Well, now those static assets are local to them and they have a much better experience when they're interacting with our application or our website. That's what local access for content means is we're going to now distribute our content, we're going to cache it locally, and now all users will be able to access our content locally versus having to go all the way across the world in order to access our data. All right. So at this point, you may be asking yourself, wait, this is an Amazon S3 course. Why are we talking so much about CloudFront? Well, S3 buckets are ultimately one of the primary origins of data that's distributed with CloudFront. All right. So again, we have our end user here. Maybe this end user opens up their Web browser and what's going to happen is this Web browser is actually going to hit the nearest CloudFront edge location. Now, once they hit the edge location, the edge location has a decision to make. It's going to ask itself, is the data being requested in my cache? All right. So this orange triangle here, do we have this content locally? If yes, then what we're going to do is we're going to send that data back to the browser really fast for the end user. Now, if that data is not in the local cache, what it's going to actually do is. Is go retrieve the data from the origin, which in this case is our bucket. And then the data is going to be sent back to the edge location. The data is going to be cached locally, but it's also going to be sent back to the Web browser now. All right. So now any future users that access our website and they're looking for those same objects. Well, now they were stored locally and we don't have to worry about going all the way back to our bucket to retrieve our data. All right. So when we're creating our CloudFront distribution and we've got a lot of options here for distributing our data. Now, the first one is you can narrow down the data using a prefix. So inside of our bucket, if we have prefixes in there, we can say, okay, we only want to distribute the content that lives in this certain prefix. We can make our cloudfront distribution public or we can restrict access using OAC. All right. And we're going to talk about OAC later in the course. We can add custom headers, we can compress objects. We can allow all these Http actions, get head options, put post, patch, delete. We can do all that with cloudfront. And if you look at those options, right, we have get but look at that we also have put and post. So that means that not only can we use CloudFront to distribute our objects for all the gets from our users, but we can also use CloudFront for Ingress as well. We can have our users accessing their local CloudFront edge locations to upload data to our buckets using CloudFront. All right, so pretty neat there. You can force the use of CloudFront signed URLs to access. You can integrate it with WAF and Shield. You can choose where you want to distribute your content. Do you want to distribute your content all around the world to every single edge location? Right. That's going to obviously give you the best performance. If you have customers all around the world, if you're primarily focused on North America and Europe, maybe you only want to use those edge locations. Maybe if you don't have users in Australia or China or something like that, maybe you don't need a distribute your content to those areas. All right. So you have that option as well. You also have the option to add a TLS certificate if you are using a custom domain for your CloudFront distribution. So if you're interested in that, make sure you check out the static website hosting section later in this course where we're going to go over that and showcase a demo. All right. So I mentioned Ingress, right? We can use CloudFront for Ingress. So if we have our users that want to upload data to our S3 bucket, well, they're going to have the best performance if they interact with CloudFront and they interact with that local edge location. So if they send the data to the CloudFront edge location on the back end, Amazon's going to use their backbone and upload those objects to the bucket so the users have a better experience because they're interacting directly with an edge location. And on the back end of Amazon we actually send the data across Amazon's backbone, which is a private, secure, very fast network that can connect us directly to S3. So that's another way that CloudFront can provide us benefits, is not only distributing our content for gets, but we can also use these CloudFront edge locations in order to upload our data to our buckets as well. So that's a brief introduction to CloudFront and how we integrate that with S3. Again, very important to have this in this course because S3 tends to be a primary origin for our CloudFront distribution. So want to make sure we cover it in detail here. So thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Restricting Access to an Amazon S3 Origin with Origin Access Control (OAC)

All right. So one of the topics that I wanted to make sure we cover in this course is the CloudFront Origin Access Control. All right. So even when you're using a CloudFront distribution to deliver content, which are the objects in your S3 bucket, they may still be directly accessible. Now, this can pose a security risk for your organization, especially if you've applied extra security controls to the content that's being served through CloudFront and you want to intend to restrict access directly to S3. Now, to address this concern, AWS offers OAC, which is Origin Access Control, which is a feature that enhances security by ensuring that only specific CloudFront distributions are allowed to access the content that lives in your S3 bucket. Now, by implementing OAC, you can now prevent direct access to the S3 bucket and ensuring that users can only access the content through your CloudFront distribution. That way you force users through your CloudFront distribution and all of those additional security controls are enforced on the CloudFront distribution and they will be applied to all of your users. So let's take a look at an example. We have an S3 bucket and then we have a CloudFront distribution here. Now, maybe we have one of our users and they're trying to access our website and of course we've set up the URL and all that good stuff where our website user would access the CloudFront distribution correctly. And of course our CloudFront distribution is going to fetch any objects from our S3 bucket as they are needed if they don't live in cache. Now, because your content lives in your S3 bucket, if you've made your S3 bucket publicly available, the website user may be able to access the data that lives in your S3 bucket directly. And this is not something that we want, right? We've applied all those additional security controls to our CloudFront distribution and we want to force those security controls. Now, by implementing OIC, we could essentially block this access, right? We can ensure that our users cannot access our data directly, and we really force them through our CloudFront URL. So all those security controls are applied to each one of our users. All right. So how does this actually work? Well, we have our website user and our website user is going to send a request to our CloudFront URL. Now, on the CloudFront side, of course, we're going to serve that data if it is already locally cached. However, we already know that if it is not cached, we need to go fetch that from our bucket. However, we need to make sure that that CloudFront distribution is the only service that can access our bucket and our user can access it directly. So in order to ensure that any requests that come from our CloudFront distribution are actually signed using the OAC signing protocol, which actually is using Sigv4. Now, S3, when it receives that request, will ultimately authenticate and authorize that request that came from our CloudFront distribution. And once it's authorized, CloudFront will provide that object as requested. Now, if this user were to go directly to the S3 bucket in this case, well, that request would not be signed by our CloudFront distribution and S3 would deny that request. So to prevent our users from accessing our S3 bucket directly, we sign our request from CloudFront and our users can no longer access our bucket, even if it's publicly available. So one thing I want to mention really quick is that OAC actually replaces the legacy solution of O-i. Now, O-i was Origin Access Identity. OAC is a newer solution that provides more features to secure your S3 origins. All right, cool. This all sounds good. How is it actually configured? Well, this is actually configured in two different parts. The first part is we're going to configure OAC on our CloudFront distribution itself. So when we are configuring our CloudFront distribution, we're going to say, hey, I want to use CloudFront and yes, I want to sign all my requests that are going to go to my S3 bucket. Now, once you set that up, well, you also need to update your bucket policy to allow CloudFront to access your bucket. So now your bucket policy should only allow access from that specific CloudFront distribution. And the cool thing is when you set up OAC on your CloudFront, it actually gives you a policy that you can drop directly into your S3 bucket in order to allow access. So we have two different parts to set this up. We configure OAC settings on our CloudFront distribution and then of course we go to our bucket and we update our bucket policy to only allow our CloudFront distribution to access our data. So that's pretty much it On OAC. Again, it's a way that we can ensure our users do not access our S3 bucket directly and we force our users through our CloudFront distribution so we can apply all those additional security controls like TLS, WAF and Shield to all of our users of our application. Now, one thing I wanted to mention before we wrap up this section on CloudFront, I do have a little bit more about CloudFront. In this course in the performance section, there's going to be a recap of the content, distribution and intro to CloudFront and how it increases our performance of our S3 buckets by distributing our contents around the world and in the static website hosting section, we're actually going to demo how we can use CloudFront to secure our website using TLS. So if you're looking for a little bit more on CloudFront in my Amazon S3 course, check out these two sections and we'll go a little bit deeper on some of those. All right, so that's it on CloudFront. Thanks for watching. And we'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Setting up CloudFront for Content Distribution

All right. Welcome back to the AWS Management console, where we are going to work on creating a CloudFront distribution that is going to front end all the objects inside of our Amazon S3 Deep-dive Bucket. So what we're going to do is we're going to go up to the top here. I'm going to find CloudFront service. There it is. So we're going to create a new CloudFront distribution and let's go through the options here. So our origin domain at the top, well, we already know that we want to serve up all the assets that live inside of our S3 bucket. So we're going to choose this and we're going to select our bucket name. You can see all the buckets in my account. We're going to select our Amazon S3 Deep-dive Bucket. Now we can optionally choose the path to append to the original domain name. We're going to leave that blank. We're going to create a name for this distribution. I'm just going to leave it as it is. We can choose the access for this distribution now. We can choose public, we can choose OAC and we can choose legacy OAC. What we're going to do is choose OAC in this case. Now what we need to do is select an access control, and this is going to configure how we want to set up access between CloudFront and our bucket. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to choose this Amazon S3 Deepdive If you want to see the settings that I configured, all it was is the default sign, all the requests, which is the recommended configuration and the origin type down here is going to be S3. All right. So I just created the same control setting there. So as we scroll down, notice right here, we have to set up our bucket policy. You must update the bucket policy and CloudFront will actually provide us with the policy statement after we finish creating this distribution and we'll simply be able to copy that and we'll go back to our bucket and add that to our bucket policy. Continuing on down, we can add a custom header, we can enable Origin Shield here. We're going to leave most of the defaults here, default caching behavior. Do we want to compress objects automatically? Now under viewer, we can choose the protocol. Do we want to allow both Http and Https requests to our data? Do we want to redirect http to Http requests or do we only want to support Https only? Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to select redirect Http to Https and knowing we're going to use the protocol https to secure our CloudFront distribution, there's going to be a certificate that's provided now allowed Http methods. Now earlier in the lecture we talked about that we can use CloudFront to not only get our objects from our bucket, but we can also use CloudFront to place objects, right? Upload objects into our bucket as well. If you want to do that, you would select this option right here, which includes both posts and put here right now, restrict viewer access. We're going to leave this as blank. We're not going to use CloudFront signed URLs or signed cookies for this continuing on cache key and origin requests. We're just going to leave the recommended configuration here. All right, Scroll down. Function associations. We're not going to do anything there. Now. Do we want to integrate with the WAF? Well, yes, we do. Right. We want to enable our security protections, additional security for our CloudFront distribution. Do we want to use monitor mode? So do we want to count how many requests would we have blocked or do we want to go ahead and actually block them? Right. If you disable it, it will actually block the requests. We want to leave that disabled. Now what we're going to do is continue on down under settings. Here's where we're going to choose where we want to distribute our content. Do we want to use all edge locations around the entire world right here? Now, if we have customers only in North America and Europe, we can select this option. So we'll go ahead and select that. Or we can choose North America, Europe, Asia, Middle East and Africa. Right? So select the one that's best for you. Now, under alternative domain name, this is where we can add our own personalized domain to our CloudFront distribution. So if you're creating this in production and you don't necessarily want people to see that cloudfront URL that we're going to use in a few minutes, you want to use your own domain name, Well, you can totally do that and you would do that right here. So for example, I own the domain called Crowson IO, so maybe we could do something like Amazon S3 dive dot Crowson, dot IO, and we can add that and we can use that to redirect to our CloudFront distribution down the road. Now, in this example, I'm not going to do that. However, if you're interested in all of this configuration, make sure you check out the static website hosting demo towards the bottom of this course where we're going to go through all of that. We're going to add a custom domain. We're going to set up Route 53, we're going to add a custom certificate to support that, and we'll be able to access directly with our custom URL. So I'm going to remove that for now. And of course, if you're using that, you would choose a certificate for your custom domain supported Http versions route object default. We're going to leave all this stuff as the default. All right, So I'm going to go down and click on Create distribution here. And notice at the top here, as it's creating our distribution in blue, it says our bucket policy needs to be updated. We mentioned that before. So what we can do is click on this button up here to copy policy and it's going to copy it to our clipboard. And while this is actually deploying right here, you can see last modified deploying, we can go back to S3 and go ahead and update our bucket policy. So I'm going to go to S3. And to go to our Amazon S3 Deep dive bucket. Go to permissions scroll down to bucket policy. We're going to edit that and we're simply going to paste in the policy that was provided to us by CloudFront. So if you look at this statement, it's basically saying we're going to allow CloudFront to communicate with our bucket for get object, right? Any object inside of our bucket. Only if somebody comes from this particular distribution. All right. So if they come from anywhere else, it's going to deny the request. So I'm going to go ahead and save changes here. And so now we have actually updated our bucket policy to allow only CloudFront to interact with our bucket. So let's go back to CloudFront here and it looks like we are still deploying our distribution. In my experience, this takes about five minutes to complete deploying here, right? So if we click on ID again, we can see deploying right here. Now inside of this distribution, you can see the Arn for our distribution here, right? But more importantly, we can see our domain name. Now, this is the domain name, the URL that we're going to use to access our objects through CloudFront. Okay. So whenever this finishes deploying, we're going to use this URL and then we're going to append the object name at the end of that in order to start accessing our objects that actually live in S3, Although we'll be going through the CloudFront service in order to access those. All right. So I'll go ahead and pause the video for a few minutes, wait for this to finish deploying, and then we'll go ahead and test it out and showcase how this all works. All right. So it looks like it finished out. Took about five minutes to complete that. So again, we're going to grab our domain name here. So I'm going to click on this little icon to copy it. I'm going to open up a new URL and I'm just going to type that in. Oh, we get an access denied because we can't actually list out our bucket. Well, we need to do is we need to go grab an object inside of our bucket and append it to that URL. So let's go back over to S3 here. We're going to go into our bucket. And let's just grab one of our objects. We've been using this avatar dot PNG. I'm going to go ahead and just copy that. Go back to our CloudFront distribution and at the end I'm going to do slash and add our avatar dot PNG and hit enter and check that out. We can actually view our objects inside of our bucket by going through our CloudFront URL. So if we wanted to do another one, I can go to book dot Jpeg, which was another one and that's actually the front cover of a book I published earlier this year. All right. So easy way to be able to use our CloudFront distribution in order to access all the objects inside of our Amazon S3 Deep-dive bucket. Again, now that we're using CloudFront, those objects are going to be cached at all of our edge locations. So now the next time another user goes and tries to access this image or our avatar image that we just saw, it's actually cached at an edge location and CloudFront does not have to go all the way back to the bucket to grab that image. It's already cached at the local edge location that I am using at my house, which is going to make it much faster for additional customers as they access our images. So hopefully that was useful to you. We went ahead and created a CloudFront distribution, tied that to our bucket, and then modified our bucket policy to permit our CloudFront distribution access to our bucket. And of course we just use our cloudfront URL to test access to our images.

---

*Section 9 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
