<!-- Section 12 of 13 | Course: aws-ai-practitioner-certified -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 12 OF 13: Preparing for the Exam + Practice Exam - AWS Certified AI Practitioner
**Course:** `aws-ai-practitioner-certified`

---
### Lecture: State of Learning Checkpoint

So congratulations on making it this far. Now that you've seen everything there is to know about exam content, now let's talk about exam preparation. So I always like to do a little state of learning checkpoint to see how far we've gone and usually to have a look at the exam guide on the certification exam page. So here I am on the certification page. And I'm going to scroll down. And I'm going to look at the exam guide right here, and open it as a new tab. So this is the exam guide for the Certified AI Practitioner course and we're just going to review this together to make sure we have the same understanding about the exam. So this course is about demonstrating overall knowledge of AI and ML and you're going to be tasked to understand AI, ML, generative AI concepts, understand the appropriate use of AI, and determine the correct type of AI technologies to apply for specific use cases and how to use all these things responsibly. So, of course, they will always say something like the target candidate should have up to six months of exposure to AI and ML technology. But this course is definitely about giving you that exposure, so no worries here if you just started with AI. But you don't need to know how to build AI and ML solution areas. This is a beginner certification. Now, there is a recommended AWS knowledge, so familiarity with the core AWS services such as EC2, S3 Lambda and SageMaker, but also the shared responsibility model, Identity and Access Management for securing access, the global AWS infrastructure and the different service pricing models. And we've seen most of those already. So stuff that is out of the scope is how to develop AI models, how to do data engineering or feature engineering techniques, how to actually do hyperparameter tuning and so on. So all these things that give you an overview about, but I didn't tell you how to do it. This is reserved for another kind of certification such as the Machine Learning Engineer Associate certification. Now, the exam content has different question types. We have multiple choice where one is a correct response and three incorrect. Multiple response, so you must correct all the responses that are correct to receive the credit for the questions. And it tells you how many you should check. Ordering, where you need to order responses based on what the question is asking you. And you receive credit only for the correct complete order. Matching, to match pairs to questions. And case study, where you have two or more questions about one specific case or scenario. And so that means you don't have to read the question again and again, the case study gives you overall background. So all these are new types of questions for these ones compared to the traditional traditional AWS exams. They probably will at some point roll into the main other exams, but this is nice to see that AWS is evolving their exam. Now, there are 65 questions when you pass the real exam, but the beta exam will have more questions. Out of the 65 questions, 50 questions will affect your score, but you don't know which ones they are. And 15 questions are unscored. They do not affect your score and you do not know which one they are. This is when AWS is trying to estimate the quality of new questions they want to enroll into their exam because the questions are changing all the time, but I keep up with them and always the course when that's the case. Okay, so it's a pass or fail exam. You get a score between 100 to 1000, and the minimum is 700 as it's passing score. You will know how you passed, but you don't know exactly how you scored for each category and you definitely do not know which question you were right and which questions you were wrong, okay? So they're weightings based on domains. So 20% goes towards Fundamentals of AI and ML, 24% goes for the Fundamentals of Generative AI, 28% towards the Application of Foundation Models, so as you can see, gen AI and FM do have a big part of the exam, 14% for Responsible AI, and then 14% for Security, Compliance, and Governance for AI Solutions, which is great. Okay, so here we get some more understanding about each domains and different tasks, so I invite you to have a look at it. I made the course very extensive. If something is not exactly covered by the course it's intended, I only really cover what's at the exam. Sometimes the exam guide is a little bit broader to make you go see more things, but really I'm 95% there if anything. And, of course, if I see something appearing at the exam, I will for sure update the course, and you're good to go. So this is a constant process that I've been doing for many, many years. But you can have a look at it. It's important to, for you to to say, "Check, check, check. Yes, Stephane, makes sense about this." And if something doesn't exist, for example, if you don't understand tokens, chunking or embeddings, go back to the relevant lecture for this, okay? You don't have any penalty points for actually answering a question incorrectly, so you need to answer all the questions, no matter what. And, of course, try to manage it within your time. But this is an exam that should give you ample time to answer all the questions, so have a read through all of these. And then we have the appendix. And this is where you have in-scope services and features. Now, you have a list of things that may appear at the exam, but, to be honest, some of these things will never be the correct answers or never actually not in-scope. So for example, I know for sure that the Data Exchange, EMR, Glue, DataBrew, Lake Formation, most likely will not appear. They're trying to make them appear here because they're data services, but they're not the scope of the exam. Really, what I teach is usually the scope of the exam. Yet, you will see a bit more services than you're used to in these lectures, okay, so don't freak out if you don't see everything, but hopefully most of it is covered by me. And they also give you out-of-scope services and features. But again, per my experience, this is usually for the in-scope a little bit wider than what is necessary and I make sure the course allows you to pass, so that's my promise to you. So have a look through the exam guide. It's 90 pages long right now. And it's quite helpful to feel confident, but from a preparation standpoint, you should be good to go. Okay, so that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Example Sample Exam Questions Walkthrough

So in this lecture, I'm going to show you sample questions, the official ones, and how I would answer them, and why I would answer them in this way. So it's good if you've never seen a test from AWS to see those with me because I tell you how to think about these questions, and I can really save you the day of the exam. So click on this link, and let's go. So you're going to answer 20 questions and I suggest you do this in your own time. The questions order is random. So the order I have is different from yours. So I suggest, go for the 20 questions, try, and then if you're interested, watch me how I do it. So here we have the inference options of SageMaker from the lowest latency to the highest latency. So AWS has a very good tendency to have keywords as lowest, highest, cost-effective, these kind of things. So you need to look for those. This is an ordering question. So we need to choose which one is the lowest latency and which one is the highest. So real time inference is definitely the lowest, then we have asynchronous inference and then batch transform. So it's something to learn about, but batch transform can be big. It could be like many, many different files. So it could take some time. So we confirm and say it looks good. So as you can see, real time is up to 60 seconds processing time. Asynchronous is up to one hour, and then batch is for offline processing. To me, this is not a great question because sometimes batch can be quicker than asynchronous, but this is the way this is on AWS for now. So here, a travel company wants to use a pre-trained GenAI model to turn background images for marketing materials. So we don't have any expertise, and we don't want to customize and host them all. So this is very important because it tells you we want to use a managed service, okay? To generate images. So you can either proceed by elimination because you know that JumpStart is not. Recognition is not, sorry, and Personalized is not, which leaves you with Bedrock and SageMaker. Now, both have the ability to create machine learning models and create background images, but here the determining factor is gonna be around that we don't want to customize and host the model, and so therefore we want to use a fully managed service, and this is Amazon Bedrock. SageMaker would be used if you wanted to actually customize the model to your needs because you have more control in SageMaker. Okay, so next we want to increase the consistency and quality of LLN responses by providing the model with access to external source of knowledge, and we want the least development effort. So again, this is kind of the keyword that we need to look at for least development efforts. So definitely we want to access external sources of knowledge. So in-context learning and prompt engineering are not good, which leaves us with fine tuning and RAG, and again, to choose between the two, what is providing us the least development efforts? Definitely this one because with fine tuning, we need to create the data, send it to the model, validate the model and so on. Whereas this is very easy to set up if you remember. Okay, so what is the FM in the context of GenAI? So here we look at the definitions and very quickly we see that it's a large general purpose model. So this is a definition. (chuckles) There's no trick here. So let's confirm this. Okay, here we are deploying a solution to enhance a knowledge base with semantic search capability, and we want to integrate it with Amazon Bedrock. So which company can use to secure access to Amazon Bedrock? So this is a distractor because they're telling you about some context, but this is enough. Which service can be used to secure access to Amazon Bedrock? So in AWS, anything that is around securing access to a service is always centrally managed through AWS Identity and Access Management, or IAM, always, always, always. So then some of the questions, as you can see, they can be distracting. They're talking about semantic search capabilities. So you're thinking about RAG. You're thinking about vector databases, but no, no, no. This is the question. This is around securing access to Amazon Bedrock. Okay, so we wanna record API calls that are made to Amazon Bedrock. Again, for me it's enough recording API calls and having logs of who made it, when and so on. There's one service in AWS that does it. It's this CloudTrail, and you need to know it absolutely 100%. Okay, so we need to customize the FM by using proprietor datasets instead of using pre-trained FM. What are the trade offs of customizing the FM? So we are customizing the foundational model. So it doesn't give us higher latency, definitely higher costs because we saw that we need to train the model, and this costs us some money. Definitely doesn't reduce accuracy, and hallucination, no, they're not increased. They actually decrease because we have our own dataset. So now it's a decreased hallucination. So definitely higher implementation complexity because now you need to provide your own dataset, have machine learning engineers to have everything set up and so on. So yeah, still good. Okay, so now we need to select the correct services for these questions. So between Guardrails for Amazon Bedrock and AWS Identity and Access Management. So implement identity verification and resource-level access control. This is IAM in AWS for anywhere. Set policies to avoid specific topics in GenAI applications. So this is peculiar to a service. So definitely Guardrails for Bedrock. Filter harmful contents is also for Bedrock. Define users and permissions to access Amazon Bedrock. So here they're trying to trick you because they talk about Amazon Bedrock, but this is about the user roles and permissions. So this is definitely IAM, and then monitor, analyze user inputs to ensure compliance with safety policy. This is an application-level concern. So Guardrails for Amazon Bedrock. Okay, so here we talk about assessing the security posture for the vulnerabilities in Amazon EC2 and ECR. So this is a weird one because it talk about AI applications, but the question is really not about AI. It's about assessing risks for Amazon EC2 instances and ECR containers, and so therefore there's one service that does it, which is going to be Amazon Inspector. That's a definition of Inspector. So this is a question that's more about AWS and less about AI for sure. It's just about knowing what Inspector is. You don't even need to know what EC2 (laughs) is or ECR is. That's the kind of basic questions you get at the exam sometimes. So let's confirm this. Now we want to use GenAI to create product descriptions on its websites. What are some limitations of GenAI? So yes, that's definitely true. So it might produce biased and inappropriate content, but let's look at the rest. We can definitely handle large volumes of data. So this one is not correct. We can definitely generate multiple languages. So this one is not correct, and GenAI definitely understand and incorporate product specification details. That's what makes them so powerful. So the issue is the first one for sure. We can proceed by intuition or elimination. So this is a case study, and we have three questions on this one case study. So here we have insights from diverse data sources, and we want to improve business operations. We have audio from call centers, text feedback from customers, product images and scanned documents. So that's some context. Now the question is which combination of steps will help us identify new products categories based on historic images? So we have historic images. So we definitely have like training model in Amazon Recognition, and to train the model in Amazon Recognition, we see that we need to provide labeled images. This is a requirement because we're going to identify new product categories this way. So this is the one. They're tricking you with unlabeled historic images, but definitely labeled, if you remember, and because they have like two of the similar answer either unlabeled or labeled, it tells you that one of these two is correct, and then we have an option of choosing Textract, Recognition or Comprehend, and again, we just need to proceed by elimination, but Recognition is the correct service for this for sure. Okay, so what service can detect texts and handwriting from invoices that are stored in PNG formats? So this is Textract to detect text and handwriting. As you can see, this question is not even related to the case study. So be careful about this. Sometimes the question is enough on its own. Which solution will improve transcription accuracy for domain-specific speech? So we're talking about transcription. So it's going to be transcribed, and as you can see, we have two answers about Transcribe and the rest about Lex and Translate. So intuitively, these ones are not correct, and one of these two is going to be correct. Now, is it batch or is it custom language? And because we have a domain-specific speech, we need to have a custom language, and we're good to go. Now, what is a valid format for instruction-based fine tuning? So this is something you need to know. So this is a labeled data, and they have to be prompt-response text pairs, but all of this, of course, is seen in the course. So you have a high accuracy on data, training data, but low accuracy on testing data. So what is it between all of these? So again, you need to remember the definition, but this is overfitting. So now we have SageMaker for ML models, and we want to create a record of model information. So we have the uses, risk rating, trading details and evaluation results. So which SageMaker feature will help us? This is not role managers. This is for access control, model dashboards, to see all the dashboards, all the models. Model Monitor is to see the quality of models, and if you get alarms. So Model Cards, it is in that definition of it. So you can see, the exam is pretty straightforward. So now we want to access the performance of assess for a text generation foundation model. So which technique will help us? So here we're talking about a metric. So reinforcement learning and fine tuning are out of the question, but then we have F1 score and ROUGE, and so remember what we saw. F1 score is going to be used for binary classification models, and ROUGE is going to be used for looking at texts from a text generation purpose. So this question is not asking you about ROUGE versus BLEU versus VERT score. It's really asking you to find the difference between concepts that are very, very different. So this is why don't worry too much if you can't differentiate ROUGE versus BLEU versus VERT score. Okay, so we want to evaluate credit contracts adhere to compliance rules, and you want to reduce the human efforts, and we want to an open source of a foundation model. So open source is none of these three. So this is definitely JumpStart for sure. So here I used elimination. Now I want to generate personalized product descriptions, and how do we do it with the least operational efforts? So here we have a few-shot prompting with examples of well-written product descriptions, which I like. Zero shot with no examples, probably doesn't give us good personalized descriptions. Fine tuning is going to work if we have the description as fine tuning, but is it the least operational effort? No, because it requires us to create this dataset and send it to the model and so on, and then continue pre-training as well would work, but again, too much effort. So here, few-shot prompting as a prompt engineering technique with examples will do the work. Here we have. We're going to select two. So two is important keyword to look at, and so we want to increase the number of variables in the training datasets and modify the behavior of the algorithm. So it's asking you two questions. So to increase the number of variables, we need to do what's called feature engineering, and to modify the behavior of the algorithm, this is about the hyperparameter tuning. So be careful here because two questions, two answers, and that's it. 100% correct, but, (chuckles) of course, I did it before, but really shows you that the course is up to date and hopefully you understand now how to possibly have a few tips and tricks to answer the exam questions. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Get an Extra 30 Minutes on your AWS Exam - Non Native English Speakers only

So if you're not an English speaker, one thing you can do is actually request for more time and request accommodation. So on the left hand side, under exam registration, click on exam accommodation and you can request an extra 30 minutes for non-native English speaker. So click on this and then select the ESL +30 minutes and then you could add documentation if you needed to, and then request the accommodation. Once it's done, it's approved and it doesn't expire. And now you can go ahead and schedule your exam so if you had exam schedule before, you need to cancel them. And now select schedule exam again. And this time the 30 minutes accommodation will be taken into account and you will have more time for your exam. If you need any other accommodation, then you can directly request it from Pearson View exam on their websites, but that's the one that people use the most usually as a non-native English speaker like me because I'm French. Okay, so that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. I wish you the best of luck for your exam and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Certification Paths

So, congratulations, you are about to attempt an AWS certification, but there is so much more on your journey. So AWS is made of foundational certifications, associate level certifications, professional level certifications, as well as specialty level certifications. And based on the type of role you want to have, they recommend different paths. So all these paths can be found in a document on the URL that have linked below in the bottom-right corner. So we have the architecture path. So if you wanna become a solutions architect, for example, to design, develop, and manage cloud infrastructure and assets, you need to do these certifications. So if you already know about the cloud and in IT, no need to do Cloud Practitioner, but I still think it's a good one. And then if you want to leverage AI, they recommend the AI Practitioner Foundational Certification. Then you move on to Solution Architecture Associate, Solutions Architect Professional. And if you want to dive deep, the Security Specialty would be really recommended. If you're more into application architecture, so this is around the user interface, the middleware, the infrastructure, and so on, then they recommend to have the same as before, but you add the Developer Associates and then you go into DevOps Engineer Professional. And then if you wanted to dive deep, the Solutions Architect Professional certification. So if you're into operations, you can be a systems administrator and your role is to install, upgrade, and maintain computer components and software and to integrate automation processes. In which case, Cloud Practitioner followed by SysOps Administrator Associate is a good one. And to do a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional. If you're a cloud engineer and your role is to implement and operate an organization network computing infrastructure and implement security systems to maintain data safety, then you have Cloud Practitioner Foundational, SysOps Administrator Associate, Security Specialty, and for a deep dive, DevOps Engineer Professional and Advanced Networking Specialty. If you're into DevOps, for example, you can be a test engineer, your role is to embed testing and quality best practices for software development from design to release throughout the product lifecycle. In which case, we have Cloud Practitioner, then Developer, and then DevOps Engineer. If you're a cloud DevOps engineer, then your role is to design, deploy, and operate large-scale global hybrid cloud computing environments and to advocate for end-to-end automated CI/CD pipelines. So in that case, you would go from Cloud Practitioner Foundational to Developer Associate and then optionally, do SysOps Administrator. And then if you are into machine learning, then doing the Machine Learning Engineer Associate could be a very good one. And finally, for a deep dive, the DevOps Engineer Professional Certification. If you're a DevSecOps engineer, so your role is to accelerate enterprise cloud adoption while enabling rapid and stable delivery capabilities using CI/CD principles, methodology, and technology. Then it is recommended for you to start with Cloud Practitioner, then SysOps Administrator Associates, Machine Learning Associate if you are working with AI and ML projects, DevOps engineer, and finally, Security Specialty. If you are into the security space, you can be a cloud security engineer and your role is to design computer security architecture and develop detailed cyber security designs. Then you develop, execute a new track performance of your security systems to protect information. So Cloud Practitioner Foundational is a good one to start with. If you're working with AI and ML systems, AI Practitioner Foundational is also a very good one. Then we have SysOps Administrator, and finally, Security Specialty. And for a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional and Advanced Networking Specialty is a good idea as well. If you're a cloud security architect, then your role is to design and implement enterprise cloud solutions, applying governance to identify, communicate, and minimize business and technical risks. In that case, you have Cloud Practitioner, then AI Practitioner Foundational, then Solution Architect Associate, and then Security Specialty. And you can do a deeper dive on Solution Architect Professional. If you're into development and networking. So for development, you go and you as a software development engineer, you develop and you will maintain software across platforms and devices, so Cloud Practitioner, AI Practitioner Foundational, Developer Associate and then DevOps Engineer. And if you're just into networking, then as a network engineer, you need to design your LANs and your WANs, so you have the Cloud Practitioner Foundational, Solutions Architect Associate, Advanced Networking Specialty, and for a deeper dive, Security Specialty. If you are in the data analytics space, you can be a cloud data engineer to do the automation of collection and processing of structure or semi-structured data, and you can monitor the data pipeline performance, in which case, Cloud Practitioner, then Solutions Architect Associate, then Data Engineer is your way to go. And for a deeper dive, you can do Security Specialty. And if you're working on AI and ML project, Machine Learning Engineer Associates. If you are in AI or in machine learning, you can be a machine learning engineer and your role is to research, build, and design artificial intelligence systems that will automate predictive models and design machine learning systems, models, and schemes. So here, you can do Cloud Practitioner and then AI Practitioner Foundational, Solution Associate, and then Machine Learning Engineer Associate. And then for deeper dive, Data Engineer Associate and Machine Learning Specialty. Then if you're a prompt engineer, your goal is to design, test, and refine text prompts to optimize the performance of an AI language model. So here, we're talking about Cloud Practitioner and very important AI Practitioner Foundational. Then we have Machine Learning Engineer Associate. And then finally, Machine Learning Specialty for a deep dive. If you're a machine learning ops engineer, you're more on the operation side, so this is where you maintain the platform and infrastructure. So you're going to be around Cloud Practitioner, AI Practitioner of course, and then Solutions Architect Associate and Machine Learning Associate, and for a deeper dive, Data Engineer and DevOps Engineer. And if you are a data scientist, your role is to develop and maintain AI and machine learning models to solve business problems. And you train and fine tune these models to evaluate their performance. And so therefore, you should do Cloud Practitioner Foundational, AI Practitioner Foundational, then Solution Architect Associates, Machine Learning Engineer Associates, and then Machine Learning Specialty. And you'll be good to go. So that's it for your learning journey on AWS certifications. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 12 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*