<!-- Section 7 of 13 | Course: aws-ai-practitioner-certified -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 7 OF 13: Artificial Intelligence (AI) & Machine Learning (ML)
**Course:** `aws-ai-practitioner-certified`

---
### Lecture: Section Introduction

So we've learned about quite concrete AWS services, but in this section we're going to take a step back and learn about AI and machine learning overall. So this section is a little bit more theory-oriented and it has a lot of information. Don't worry and don't go too much into the details. What I want you to understand is the general idea behind AI, machine learning, deep learning, and generative AI. And if you've understood this, then you will be acing your questions at the exam. I give you a little bit more information than you should because I think it's a fascinating topic and I hope you will really understand the behind those scenes of AI and machine learning.

---

### Lecture: AI, ML, Deep Learning, and GenAI

So now that we've been using a lot of AI, I wanna take a little step back and go back into what is AI overall and go a little deeper than what we've learned so far. So what is AI? Well, AI is a broad field for the development of intelligent systems capable of performing tasks that typically require human intelligence, for example, perception, reasoning, learning, problem solving, decision making, and AI overall is an umbrella term for all the various techniques within the field of AI. So you've seen this diagram already. So we have AI, artificial intelligence, and then within it, we'll have machine learning, within it, we'll have deep learning, and within it, we'll have GenAI. So what are some of the use cases of artificial intelligence? We have seen a few, but it's always good to get reminded. So we have computer vision, for example, for self-driving cars. We have facial recognition. We have fraud detection or intelligence document processing, IDP. We've seen those, so I'm not going to spend too much time already. Now, how does AI work? Well, we have a data layer where we're going to collect a vast amount of data. That could be your data scientist or your data engineer. Then we're going to define a machine learning framework or algorithm layer. This is where your data scientist and your engineers, they're going to work together to understand the use cases, the requirements, and the frameworks that can help solve your problems. Then you have the model layer. So this is where we implement a model, and we train it. So we have the structure. We set the correct parameters and function. We set an optimizer function, something very detailed, but to create the actual model. And finally, we want to be able to serve that model. So we create what's called an application layer. And so this is where we expose, in a specific way, your model to your users. So next, what is machine learning or ML? Well, ML is a type of AI used to build methods that will allow machines to learn from data. And so data is going to be leveraged because when we have a lot of data, we're going to improve the computer performance on a specific set of tasks. And so therefore, we can make prediction based on the data used to train the model. So here is a very simple example. We'll see them in much greater detail in this section. So here's a regression, so we have two axises, and we have a lot of data points on these two axises, and we want to sort of predict where the data points are going to be. So in the regression, we would have this line right here and say, "Look, it looks like this data set is following this trend of this line," so this is one way of doing it. And then thanks to this line, we can start making predictions. Again, I will go over regression in much greater detail later in this section. The other one could be classification and say, "Here are all my data points." Some of them are blue, some of them are orange, and it looks like, if I draw this specific line, then left of my line is going to be mostly orange points, and the right of my line is going to be mostly blue points, and therefore, I have created a rule to classify my data. So with machine learning, we don't explicitly program these rules. We just give data to the algorithm, and the algorithm is going to create its own model to classify or to understand how the data is being structured and laid out and find patterns. So I want to remind you that AI is not equal to machine learning, although now, most likely, all of the new AI is machine learning. But back in the days in 1970s, there were systems developed, for example, the MYCIN system that was developed to diagnose patients based on the reported symptoms they had and medical test results. And someone, I mean, a group of people, of course, created over 500 rules. And here are some example of these rules. And the rules say, if the identity of the organism is bacteria, then you recommend all these things and so on. And so these rules are very, very specific. They're yes, no, or textual questions. And then by answering a lot of questions and based on this rule system, then we're going to get automatically a list of potential bacteria that provided a disease, and then you're gonna get a probability of diagnosis and so on. But all these things were based on explicit rules programmed by humans. And this system was never really used in production because back in the days, there were no easy way to implement them. And personal computers were really not cheap and accessible as they are today. But nowadays, we don't really program rules. We use machine learning, throw a lot of data at machine learning algorithms, and then we get models out of it. So now we have deep learning, so one level deeper. So deep learning is a subset of machine learning. And here we use the concept of neurons and synapses like our brain to train a model. So we were really inspired by how our brain functions to develop these models. The idea is that with deep learning, you are able to process more complex patterns in the data than with traditional machine learning techniques, such as what I've shown you, which were, for example, the regression and classification. So deep learning is following what a brain looks like. So visually, we have an input layer. We give it a lot of data. Then we have more layers within our data. They're called hidden layers. And then we have output layers to get the answer we're looking for. So it's called deep learning because there's more than one layer of learning. As you can see, we have the input, the output, but also hidden layers. And it could be a lot of hidden layers. So it's called deep because there's one more level, and it looks like a brain because now we have all these things connected with each other, and so we have neurons and synapses. So for example, computer vision such as image classification, object detection, image segmentation is based on deep learning or natural language processing, NLP, for example, text classification, sentiment analysis, machine translation, language generation is also based on deep learning. And with deep learning, to have a very good model, you need a very large amount of input data. And on top of it, it is very computationally heavy. And so it requires using GPU. You may have heard of GPU. A company producing a lot of GPU right now is Nvidia, and they're very much in the news because their stock is going up like crazy. But they produce what's called graphical processing units, which is what your computer has to actually display what you see right now. What you see right now on your screen, all the pixels is processed by GPU, but GPU also have this amazing capability at being great at what's called parallel computations. And so therefore, they're really heavily used as well in the deep learning space. So neural network are very complicated to explain, but I'm going to try my best to give you an idea of how they work. Now (laughs) it requires a whole level of understanding to really understand how they work, but don't worry. From the exam perspective, you don't need to know exactly how it works. But I always like to provide a little bit more information for you to gain some skills. So we have the input data, and then by putting the data into our network, it's going to create connections between our different layers. And over time, new connections are going to be created all the way down to the output layer. And these nodes, these 10 units, they're connected together, and they're organized into layers. So we have the input layers, the hidden layers, and the output layers. And when we throw a lot of data into our neural network, the connections are going to change because patterns are going to be identified. And therefore, if we start offering more data, for example, the nodes will be talking to each other and creating new connections, as you can see right now, or removing old connections as well. So as you see in my diagram, there are new connections added and sometimes connections removed to build your neural network. So the math and all the parameters behind tuning a neural network is way beyond the level of this course. But hopefully, I give you some level of understanding into how things work at a very high level. If I go too deep, it's gonna be too complicated for this course. Now neural network, in practice, they have billions of nodes, and we have many, many, many different layers. That's why it's called deep learning. So there's a very simple example where we give handwritten numbers to a neural network. And so we have all these numbers right here. And so the input layer will represent pixels, and then the hidden layers would represent, for example, what the model identifies as line or curves based on what the data has been seeing. So for example, if it sees a vertical line, for example, the number one, the number four, and the number seven all have a vertical line in it, like graphically speaking, then you can imagine that one layer would be used to detect these kind of lines. And the network itself figures out that this should be one layer. For example, if you look at the number six, the number eight, and the number zero, again, we have a very curved bottom for the these three numbers, visually speaking. And so therefore, maybe one layer in your neural network is going to look for these curves. And so when you add all these layers intuitively that detect vertical lines, curved bottoms and so on, and you add these things together, automatically, you will get the right number being detected. So all of this, though, is not manually programmed by humans. It is automatically learned by the neural network. And that is my best explanation on neural network. I hope this was enough for you. Okay, and now that we have neural networks, we go into the GenAI space. So the GenAI space, we've seen before. We give a lot of data. We pre-train a foundation model, and this foundation model is very versatile. It can adapt to a broad range of general tasks. So gene AI is a subset of deep learning. Here we have a multipurpose foundation model that is actually backed by multiple neural networks. And these models can also be fine tuned as we want with our data to better fit our use cases. So these generic models leverage what's called the transformer model. So the transformer model is just a name, no need to remember, not exactly how it works, but the idea is that it's an optimization that allows a model to process a sentence as a whole instead of word by word, which gives us faster and more efficient text processing, so less training time. So this is what the transformer model looks like. You don't need to know anything about it. I just want to provide you a visual of what the transformer architecture looks like. But the idea is that it's able to process sentences very efficiently and give relative importance to specific words in a sentence. And so we have transformers-based LLM, so they are models that can understand and generate human-like texts. They're trained on a lot of data from the Internet, from books, or from other sources, and learn patterns very efficiently between words and phrases. And why am I mentioning transformers to you? Well, because Google BERT or OpenAI ChatGPT are based on it. And ChatGPT means chat generative pre-trained transformer. And this is why I wanted to talk to you about the transformer architecture. It is a very commonly used model nowadays, architecture nowadays, and this is what ChatGPT and a lot of other foundation model are based on. This is for text. Now we've seen for images as well, the diffusion model where we have a picture, and we do a forward diffusion process by adding noise over time. And then to generate images, we do the opposite. We generate from noise back a cat image by providing a prompt. So I'm going faster over this because we've seen this already. Next we have multi-model models. So this is difficult (laughs) to say, but of course this is a model where we have multiple types of inputs and multiple types of outputs in terms of formats. For example, a multi-model can take a mix of audio, image, and text and output a mix of video and text, for example. For example, we give a prompt, we give an image of a cat, and we give an audio file, and we tell the model, "Please generate a video making the cat in the picture speak what is included in the audio." And the model will understand all these things, combine them together, and create a video of a cat with the specific audio. So this is the idea that now models are going to be even more generalized, not just text, or not just images, but a combination of different formats. And to finish this long lecture, I know, but hopefully very important to you is (laughs) a little thing where I say that humans are a mix of AI. So to help you understand exactly what works, so artificial intelligence is when we say, "Well, if this happens, then do that. So if there's a fire in my home, put some water on it to extinguish it." But now we go into machine learning, and we don't have just the if/then rules. We talk about what we've seen before, and we classify them. So for example, we've seen a lot of dogs before, and we see a new dog, and we're very confident that this is a dog. Next we have deep learning. So we haven't seen something before, but we learned from other similar concepts what it was, and therefore, we can make a decision. For example, say you have seen a lot of animals in your life. You've seen dogs, you've seen cats, you've seen elephants, giraffes, and so on. And all of a sudden, you see a tiger. This is the first time you've seen a tiger, and you've never seen a tiger in your life or never learned about the tiger, but it looks like it has legs. It looks like it has a mouth. It is moving. It's alive. So you say, "Well, this looks like an animal to me." And this is the idea behind deep learning. We can learn things from similar concepts, even though we've never seen them before. And finally, we have generative AI, so we are able to learn things from similar concepts, but now we can actually generate content. We can be creative, even though we've never seen it. So maybe we haven't seen a specific type of poem, but we invent one because we are being very creative, and this is what humans are about to create. So hopefully, I didn't shock you by saying that humans are a mix of AI, but I wanna show you how in our own personal reasoning process, we are different level types of AI between artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, and generative AI. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: ML Terms You May Encounter in the Exam

So here are some machine-learning terms that you may encounter in the exam. You don't need to know a lot about them, just the executive summary. So don't stress it too much, but feel free to read this lecture once before your exam just in case. So if you see GPT, it means generative pre-trained transformer, and it's a model that's going to be able to generate human text or computer code based on input prompts. If you have BERT, again, it's a language model, and it's called bidirectional encoder representations from transformer. It has a similar intent to GPT, but this time it will read the text in two directions, making great for translation purposes. RNN is a recurrent neural network. It's a neural network specifically geared to process sequential data. So it could be, for example, time series data or texts. So it's going to be very helpful for speech recognition or to make time series prediction. ResNet is residual network, so it's a type of neural network called a deep convolutional neural network, CNN, and it's used for image recognition tasks, object detection, and facial recognition. So ResNet is for images. SVM is support vector machine. It's an ML algorithm used for classification and regression. WaveNet is a model used to generate raw audio waveform, hence the name WaveNet. So it's used in speech synthesis. And GAN, generative adversarial network, is a model used to generate synthetic data such as images, videos, or sounds that resemble the training data. So for example, a big use case of GAN is going to be data augmentation. So in the case that you have a training data set with underrepresented categories, then you may want to use GAN to actually generate fake data, but that's still going to be looking like your original data in order for your next model to have a trained data set that is going to be more balanced. You also have XGBoost, which is extreme gradient boosting, which is an implementation of gradient boosting and used for regressions. So all these things maybe seem to be visited very, very quickly, but it's necessary because they just appear maybe once at the exam. In my opinion, GPT, BERT, and GAN are going to be the ones you want to remember, but if you quickly remember that ResNet is for images, WaveNet is for audio, and GAN is for creating data augmentation, GPT and BERT are for language, very quickly at the exam, you're going to be able to say which are correct and which are incorrect by process of elimination or by just remembering this lecture. So that's it, no need to know too many details on those, just know their intent. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Training Data

So now let's talk about training data in the context of machine learning. So in the context of machine learning, we need data to train our models. And on top of having data, we need good data. So good has to been defined, of course. But as an into effect, if you put bad data, it's called garbage. If you put garbage into your model, you're gonna get garbage out of your model, that means your model won't be good. So training data and clean the data and making sure that it is good for your use case is one, if not the most critical stage to build a good model. And there's several options to model a data and that will impact the type of algorithms you can use to train our models. So first I want to talk about labeled versus unlabeled data. Then we'll talk about structured versus unstructured data. So what is labeled data? Well, it's data that has both input features, and also output labels. So let's give an example. Here we have some images of animals, and each image is going to be labeled with the corresponding animal type. So here we have dogs, and here we have cats. So this is labeled data 'cause we have some input features. We'll have the image itself as an input feature, and then the output label corresponds to what the image is, so dogs or cats. So this is a very important one because when we have labeled data, we can do what's called supervised learning, where we are going to teach an algorithm to map inputs. So here the image to the known output, meaning, hey, this image should have a predicted value of dog, and we know it's a dog because we've labeled it. Unlabeled data is a little bit different. It's data that only includes input features without any output labels. So here again, we take the example, of say, a collection of images, but this time without any associate labels. So we have here three cats and three dogs, or four cats and two dogs, sorry. And here we don't say to the algorithm, "This is a dog or this is a cat." And here the algorithm will have to figure out that there is such thing as a cat and that four of these things are a cat, and two of these things are dogs. So unsupervised learning is a little bit more complicated, but here the algorithm itself is going to try to find patterns between things or structures in the data and then group them together. So very different use case, and obviously, the most simple thing is to have labeled data, but in some cases you have so much data that it is very costly or just simply impossible to label everything. And so therefore, you have a lot of unlabeled data. This is why in the field of machine learning, we have algorithm for both the use case of labeled data and unlabeled data. Next we have structured data. So here, that's when the data is organized in the structured format. Usually it's gonna be rows and columns, just like in Microsoft Excel. So it's called tabular data. And here we have three rows. One is the rows with the name of the columns, and then the other rows are the data itself. So here we have a customer's base, we have the Customer_ID, the Name, the Age, as well as the total Purchase_Amount. So this is structured data because while there is a big structure to it, we have rows and columns. Another kind of structured data you can encounter, for example, is going to be Time Series Data. So when you look, for example, at the stock price of a company, it looks like this. And so that means that it's data points collected or recorded at successive point in time. So you can have time series data in the tabular format, but it is also very common to just have it with two columns. One being the Date and then one being the Stock Price. So there are more ways to have structured data than Tabular Data or Time Series Data. But the important thing is that in both cases, it is very easy to read it and very easy to structure it. On the opposite end, we have unstructured data. This is data that doesn't follow a specific structure. Usually it's often text heavy or a multimedia content. So for example, text data, say you have an article online or a social media post or a customer review on your business, then this is considered unstructured data. For example, here is a review of a yoga class. So this is a long text. The instructor was excellent, the felt city was well maintained and so on. But it's just a review. There is no structure to it except the fact that it's just a long text. Image data, for example, is also unstructured data. For example, this is just pixels. But besides the pixels, we haven't collected or organized anything out of it. So both these, the type of data are still good data. They're just unstructured, and we have specific type of algorithm to deal with this unstructured data. So now we've learned about labeled and unlabeled data. We've learned about the necessity of having good data for your ML algorithms. We have discussed also structured and unstructured data. So now we're ready to go into the next lecture. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Supervised Learning

So now that we learned about the data, let's talk about supervised learning. So here in this context of supervised learning, we're trying to figure out a mapping function for our model that can predict the output for new unseen input data. So to do supervised learning, you need labeled data. That means it's going to be very powerful. But as I said, it's going to be very difficult to have labeled data for millions of data points. But for example, say we are doing a regression on humans. And humans have a height and also have a weight. And so we can just have a little crosses for every human and put a weight and height. And so it will end up on this diagram. And then we can do a regression in which we try to find a straight line. This is called a linear regression. We try to find a straight line that sort of covers the trend of these data points. Of course, it's not perfect, but it's one way of doing it. We know that of course some humans can be very tall and very light, and others can be very tiny, and very heavy. But still it's one algorithm that we can apply to these data sets. And so once we have this red line that crosses our data sets, then we can ask the algorithm, "Hey, what is the weight of a person that is 1.6 meter tall?" And based on this regression, the way we're going to do is that we're going to look at the 1.6 value here. We're going to go all the way here to the red line and read the value, and it's going to be 60 kilograms. Now, you don't need to know this from an exam perspective, but I want to show you how you can use a machine learning algorithm to predict something. So here, for a height of 1.6 meter, we predict that the weight is going to be 60 kilogram. Now, for a classification, we have a different kind of algorithm. So say for example, we are again using heights and weights. And this time we put animals there. So we're going to have dogs, we're going to have cats and giraffes. And so as you can see, it's a very diverse data set. It's very possible that dogs and cats will have the same height and different weights, so it can be all over the place. But again, it's just one way of doing things. It's not perfect. And machine learning algorithms do get a little bit more advanced than this, but it's good for a learning purpose. Anyways, so we can see clearly that giraffes are going to be very tall and very heavy, and so they're gonna be heavily differentiated from dogs and cats. And so therefore, once we've classified things, and we ask the algorithm, "What animal is this?" And we give it a height of 4.5 meters and a weight of 800 kilograms, the classification model is going to say, "Well, based on the data you gave me, this looks like a giraffe." Here, we didn't get a regression, we did a classification because the output is not a value, but it is instead a continuous value, but it's then a category. So the classification says here you have a giraffe. So to summarize, a regression is to predict a numeric value based on input data. And the output variable that you're trying to predict is continuous. That means it can take any value within a range. So here this is when we try to predict a quantity or a real value. Again, another example is we have house sizes and price. And again, we do a linear regression, then we put the house size, and then we get the price from this linear regression. So here's some examples. So predicting house prices, predicting a stock, weather forecasting. And here I'm showing you a two-dimensional regression. But in practice, regressions can be a lot more complicated. They can be other things than linear, and they can be in more dimensions than two dimensions. But from a learning perspective, at least you see what a regression can be. From a classification purpose, this is to predict the categorical label of your input data. That means that the output variable is discrete, meaning that it has very distinct values, and each value is a specific category or class. So this is where you're trying to predict what it could be between different categories. So it could be use cases for fraud, for image classification, customer retention, diagnostics, and so on. So we have a binary classification. For example, when your emails are coming to your mailbox, they can be classified as spam, or not spam. So how does that work? Well, we're going to train a classification model. And for this, in our inbox, we have some emails that we know are not spam, and then we have some emails that we know are spam. Why? Because we have labeled them. We have defined that this email is not spam, and this email is spam. Again, we are dealing with labeled data. So all these labeled emails are gonna go into our classification model, which is going to learn what makes or what doesn't make a email, an inbox or a spam email. And therefore, whenever your classification model, after being trained, sees a new incoming email, is going to have a look and say, "Well, based on what I know, I'm going to classify this email, for example, as spam." And this is how spam filters work nowadays. We have multi-class classifications. So for example, you have different kinds of, not just two categories, but a lot more. For example, mammal, bird and reptile and multi-label. This is where, for example, you don't want to have one label attached to an output, but multiple ones. So a movie for example, can be both an action movie and also a comedy. And a machine learning algorithm you may have is the K-nearest neighbors, k-NN model used for classification. Okay, so now in our case of supervised learning, what do we have? We have the training versus the validation versus the test sets. So here's our data sets. And usually 80% is going to be used to train the model. So 60 to 80%. And the idea is that you're going to, for example, if you have 1,000 images, get 800 labeled images, and you're going to train your algorithm, train your model on these 800 labeled images. And how do we know if our model is working correctly? Well, we can use a validation set. And this is to tune what's called the model parameters and validate the performance. So this is how to tune the algorithm so that it performs best. And here this is 10%, 20% of the data sets. And for example, if you have 100, 1,000 images, then 100 label images could be used to tune the algorithm and make it more efficient. And finally, we have the test sets. And this is where we actually test and evaluate the final model performance. So here we are going to detect between, again, 10 to 20% of the dataset. And we're going to just submit the remaining images that haven't been used for training or for validation. And we're going to test the model's accuracy. So, for example, I give an image of a cat, and if I get labeled cat as an outcome, then this is a good test, and I know that my model is working as it should. But of course, we do this on a lot more data points to make sure that our test set is working. So very important for you to know that we have training sets versus validation sets versus test sets when you split a data set for training a machine learning algorithm. Also, how do we prepare data for our algorithms? Then we have what's called feature engineering. So it's the process of using domain knowledge to select and transform raw data into meaningful features. And that helps enhancing the performance of machine learning models. So for example, here is a dataset in which we have structured data with labels. But actually one column, the column birth date, is not very nice and easily usable from a machine learning perspective because it's sparse data. Instead, maybe something that can be more relevant after doing feature engineering is to convert this birth date column into an age column, which is easier to use from a machine learning perspective and to extract valuable information out of. So this whole transformation of data is called feature engineering. So technique employed could be feature extraction. For example, to derive the age from the date of birth. It could be feature selection. For example, to select a subset of relevant features, to choose only the important features in our data sets. Or feature transformation. To transform data and to change the values to have a better model performance. So this is very, very helpful, especially when you do supervised learning. So we can do feature engineering on structured data. For example, let's say we have, again, we want to predict the house prices based on size, location, and number of rooms. And for example, a task we could do to create a feature would be to create a new column named price per square foot. That could be a nice feature. Or feature selection. For example, identifying the only important features such as location or number of bedrooms. Or feature transformation. We want to make sure that all the features are on the same range so that we can have some algorithms converge faster. I wanna stay high level because I don't wanna go too deep into it, but this is how you do feature engineering on structured data, and that's enough from an exam perspective. And you can also do feature engineering on unstructured data. So again, for example, long form text or images. And for example, you can do sentiment analysis of customer reviews to extract the sentiments from a long text. And this would be your features. So we can also use some advanced techniques such as TF-IDF to convert text into numerical features. Or for image data, we can extract features such as the edges or the textures using some neural networks. Again, to create nice features for image data and to feed that into other algorithms. So you can see how we can start to train our machine learning algorithms. So that's it for feature engineering. Just know, I think from an example, especially that it exists, and it's used to create new input labels so that we can have our machine learning algorithms perform better. All right, that's it. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Unsupervised Learning

So now let's talk about unsupervised learning. So this is machine learning algorithms made on data that is unlabeled. So here data is unlabeled, but we're trying to discover inherent patterns, structures, or relationships within the input data. And the machine learning algorithm will create the groups itself. And us as humans have to interpret what these groups may mean. So there are several techniques for unsupervised learning, such as clustering, association rule learning, as well as anomaly detection. You don't need to know them from an exam perspective, I'm just going to give you a quick overview of those, but it's just to give you knowledge, but not necessarily going to be relevant for the exam. Just for you to really understand what unsupervised learning means. So for example, say we have data points and we plot them again on two axes, and it looks like they can be grouped into three categories. So for example, for clustering, we can do customer segmentation. Imagine every dot is a customer. It looks like we have three distinct group of customers, or for example, we're trying to group them so we can do targeted marketing. So for one group, we'll send them specific emails for another group, another type of emails, and the last one, another type of email, or what can we recommend to each group and so on. So unsupervised learning is great on unlabeled data, but of course, feature engineering can still help, because we can have more features in our input datasets and therefore get better quality algorithms. So clustering is about to group data points, because they look similar. So this is when we have, for example, customer segmentation, the scenarios that you have all your customers and you want to understand the different purchasing behaviors. And therefore, we're going to look at all the customer purchase history, and we're going to try to identify groups of customers based on their purchasing behavior. So at a high level, for example, one customer or many customers buy pizza, chips and beer, others will buy baby shampoo and baby wipes, and others will buy fruits and vegetables. So they look like very different categories of people, maybe the first one, or people who like to, who can be students, for example. The second one could be new parents. And the last one could be vegetarians. It could be just one way of modeling it. And so the model is going to plot all these customers and figure out, it looks like there are three groups, 1, 2, and 3. And it's up to us to name what group 1, group 2, and group 3 may be. So why do we do this? Well, for example, now that we have three groups, we can send them different marketing campaigns and do different marketing strategies based on what they're likely to purchase next. We have also the association rule learning technique. So here we want to understand which products are frequently bought together in a supermarket. So we're going to look at all the purchases and we're gonna try to identify if there are associations between some products in order maybe to place them better in our supermarkets or to run promotions together. So there's a technique called the Apriori algorithm. And for example, we can figure out that when someone buys bread, they most likely also wanna buy butter. And so maybe it's a great idea to put bread and butter together in the supermarkets. So the outcome is that now the supermarket knows which products can be sold together and therefore place them next to each other in a supermarket in order to, well, boost sales. We can use unsupervised learning as well to do fraud detection. For example, we want to detect fraudulent credit card transactions. And so we have transaction data including amount, location, and time. And we want to see which transactions are very, very different from typical behavior. So there's a technical isolation forest, but as an idea, like here we have three groups of very normal transactions, but then there is something that looks like it's very different from everything else we've seen. It's called an outlier. And therefore, with this technique, we can flag the system to review this transaction to see if it's potentially fraudulent, and then do further investigation. And as an outcome, if it is fraud, we can also label it as fraud, which is going to help our algorithm later on to identify fraud in a much easier way. Next, we have semi-supervised learning. So we've seen unsupervised, we've seen supervised, and there is in between called semi-supervised learning. The idea is that we have a small amount of labeled data and then we are going to have a large amount of unlabeled data. That is very realistic, because labeling data can be expensive. So once we have this, we're going to train our model on labels. And then once we have the unlabeled data, we're going to use the model to actually label the unlabeled data. This is called pseudo-labeling. And then once everything is labeled, then we're going to retrain the entire model on the whole dataset, because now everything is going to be labeled. And so therefore, next time when we run our algorithm and then we have unlabeled data that comes in, the model can just reply, "It's an Apple!" So it's mixing labels to create labels on unlabeled data and then, retrain the model to have a full supervised learning model. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Self-Supervised Learning

Okay, so now let's talk about Self-Supervised Learning. So this is a bit of an odd one, but the idea is that we have a model and we have a lot of unlabeled data, for example, text data. We want the model to generate its own pseudo-labels on its own, without having humans label any data first, because labeling data as humans can be very expensive. So here, we are not doing unsupervised learning because we're actually getting labels out of it, and then we're going to solve supervised learning tasks, but we don't label any of the data first, we expect the data to label itself. So it's a bit of an odd one, of course, and the implementations can be quite complicated, but I'll do my best to explain. So here, let's imagine we have a huge amount of text data, and it's a lot of texts, and the text makes sense to us because it has the right structure, the right grammar, and so on. And so using self-supervised learning techniques, and I will show you some of them in the next slide, then we're going to have a model that will learn on its own the English language, the grammar, the meaning of words, and the relationship between words, without us telling and writing out, "What is the meaning of word, what is the grammar?" And so on, which is quite amazing. So once we have this model, then we can solve other problems that we can traditionally solve with supervised learning. For example, once we have this model, we can, for example, create a summarization task. So this technique of self-supervised learning is what actually allowed a lot of the new models in AI to come out, such as GPT models, or image recognition tasks, and so on. So let me try to explain intuitively how that works. So the idea is that in self-supervised learning, you have what's called "pre-text tasks." And the idea is that we're going to give the model simple tasks to solve and to learn patterns in data sets. So if we take an extract of our Unlabeled Data Sets, for example, this sentence, "Amazon Web Services, AWS is a subsidiary of Amazon and so on,' we're going to create a pre-text task in which we're saying, "Hey, we're going to have to predict what is going to be the next word, or what's going to be the missing word." For example, we have "Amazon Web," and the next word is going to be "Services," or "that provides on-demand cloud, and then the next word is "computing." Or, for example, we can fill in the blanks, for example, "API to individuals," blank, "and governments. on a metered pay-as-you-go basis." And again, the word to fill is companies. So as you can see from a lot of unlabeled data, we can create a ton of pre-task tasks, and we're going to train our model on those. So, of course, predicting the next word may not be very useful, but actually, by having these very simple tasks that the model can solve without us creating labels in the first place, like human-generated labels, because all these labels in X and Y are generated by computers, and then we can, for example, train on predicting the parts of any input from any other parts, or the future from the past or the masked from the visible, or any occluded apart from all available parts. And then once we solve these pre-test tasks, and there can be many of those, then the model internally will have created its own internal representation of the data and will have created its own pseudo-labels. And so therefore, once we have done a lot of the pret-ext tasks, for example, our label now knows how to understand texts, and grammar, and meaning of words, and then we can ask it more useful tasks, and they're called downstream tasks, and that's the idea behind self-supervised learning. So it's my best explanation of it, it's a complex topic, something that can be quite technical at some points, but the idea is that you have the model generate its own pseudo-labels by using pre-text tasks, and that's it. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Reinforcement Learning

So now let's talk about reinforcement learning. So the idea, for example, here we have a maze and we're trying to train an AI to find the exit of a maze. So reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning where an agent is going to learn and make decision by performing action in an environment and maximize what's called cumulative reward. So we're going to define what is a reward. So the key concepts here is that you have the agent, that's the little robot right here, that's the learner or decision maker. The environment is the maze, that's the external system that the agent is interacting with. And the action is the choices made by the agents. So in the setting of a maze, for example, is to go up, to go left, to go right, to go down. The reward is the type of feedback that the environment is going to provide based on the agent's action. For example, for this maze, we're going to assign numbers. We're going to give -1 as a reward, so negative 1, whenever the robot walks somewhere and there is no wall, it's just a normal place to walk to, so it's good. We're gonna give it -10 if the robot is walking into a wall. And we're going to to give it +100 if the robot is able to find the exit. So, of course, because the robot wants to maximize rewards and it needs to find the shortest path to the exit. And the longest it takes to find the path, the more points it will lose. And of course, if it walks into a wall, it's going to lose points even faster, so we're going to teach the robot not to walk into walls. The state is also the current situation of the environment, what it looks like and what is available. And the policy is a strategy used by the agent to determine what action to take based on the state. And the idea is that the robot is going to do many, many, many simulations and over time it's going to get better because it's going to learn from its mistake by maximizing the reward function. So here we go, so here is the learning process. The agent is going to have a look at the environment and the current state. It was going to select an action based on the strategy, the policy. So, for example, go up, go down, go left, go right, and so on. And then the transition is going to transition the environment. And then the environment is going to transition into a new state and provide a reward to the agent, so it could be -1, -10, +100 in our previous example. Then the environment will be in a new state, and then the agent is going to update its policy once it has figured out the exit to improve future decisions. And so we go again in this learning process over and over and over again until the agent will run maybe a thousand or a million simulations, and then the agent will have learned how to properly navigate the maze. So here the goal of the agent really is to maximize the cumulative reward over time. So here, how it looks for example for our little maze. So here we have to train the robot over time to navigate this maze. So the steps is at the first the robot is going to observe its position, that's the state. Then it's going to choose a direction to move in, that's the action. And then it's going to receive reward, it's going to be -1 to take a step, 10 to hit a wall, and +100 if going to the exits. And then over time, of course, the robot is going to first move randomly, but at some point it will find the exits. And then once it's found the exit, it's going to update its policy based on what it has learned from its movement and then try again. And over time the robot will learn to navigate the maze more efficiently. There is a cool YouTube channel that I would recommend for you to watch called AI Warehouse. And the idea is that this person trains AI based on reinforcement learning based on different factors, and you actually see the AI visually getting better at doing some kind of actions. So let me just show you an extract, but I invite you to watch this video if you're curious. So here we have the AI in this video and the AI is moving randomly and learning how to navigate the environment. And it's going to gain points if it hits the green little of things on the floor. And so over time, it's going to get better to learn how to jump, to learn how to go to the green thing. And you can see, there are many, many different iterations being done in this video, and over time it's going to learn how to move. And so it's quite interesting because well after many, many iterations, as you can see, it's able to find the exits and move on to the next puzzle. And over time, of course, things are getting more complicated for the AI, which is going to keep on learning what it can and cannot do. And it's a very interesting video because you can really visually see how the AI is getting better after so many iterations, and that is the whole process of reinforcement learning explained in a visual way. So what is reinforcement learning used for? Well, it's used for gaming to teach an AI to play very complex games, such as chess and go, or robotics to teach robots how to navigate and manipulate objects in a dynamic environment, for finance, for portfolio management, and training strategies for healthcare to optimize treatment plans, and for autonomous vehicles, for path planning and decision-making. So that's it for reinforcement earning. I hope now you understand what it means. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: RLHF - Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback

So now that we've seen reinforcement learning, let's look at reinforcement learning from human feedback. So the idea is that you want to use human feedback to help the machine learning models to self-learn more efficiently. So we know that in reinforcement learning now there is a reward function, but now we want to actually incorporate human feedback directly in the reward function to be more aligned with human goals, wants, and needs. So the model responses are going to be compared to the human responses, and the human is going to assess the quality of the model's responses. And so RLHF is actually used a lot in GenAI applications, including LLM models because it significantly enhances the model performance. For example, you are grading text translations from just technically correct, yes, the translation does make sense, but it doesn't sound very human. So this is where human feedback is very important. So here's where you need to pay attention, of course, the whole course, but here as well. So say you want to build an internal company knowledge chatbot, but you want to align it with RLHF. So on the data collection, you're going to get a set of human-generated prompts and ideal responses. For example, "Where is the location of the HR department in Boston?" So this is a human prompt, and also, we'll create a human response for it. Then we're going to get a language model, and we are going to do supervised fine-tuning to allow it to get our internal company data. So we're going to find it with an existing model with internal knowledge. And then the model is going to create responses for the very same human prompts that we had before. And now, we've seen that we have metrics available to us. So we can compare the responses mathematically between the human-generated answer, as well as the computer-generated answer, the model-generated answer. Next, we are going to build a separate reward model. So this is an AI model just for the reward function. And so how do you build a model? Well, humans are gonna go and they're gonna get two responses from a model, just different responses. And they're going to indicate which one they prefer from the same prompt. And so over time, the model will know how to fit a human preference. And so the reward model knows now how to automatically, how a human would choose. And therefore, we can optimize the initial language model now thanks to the reward-based model because we are going to use that model as a reward function for reinforcement learning. And that part can be fully automated because, well, the human feedback has been part of creating the reward model. So a diagram to show you. This is coming directly from the AWS website. So first, is a supervised fine-tuning. So we're going to collect data, and then we're going to fine-tune our base LLM into a fine-tuned LLM. Then we're going to train a separate reward model. So here, we're going to have different answers. And then a human is going to say, "I prefer answer one to answer two." And then automatically, this model is going to be trained. And then we're going to do another layer of supervised fine-tuning from the base language model, but now, using this new model, the rewards model. And then finally, we can combine these two things together so that the policy and the answer generated out of step three for the reinforcement learning strategy is going to be judged automatically by the rewards model. And so the training is going to be fully automated, yet aligned with human preferences. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. I would be you, I would remember these four steps right here. Data collection, supervised fine-tuning, building a separate reward model, and then optimizing the language model with a reward-based model. But understanding the basic idea behind RLHF is going to get you most likely all the points at the exam on these questions. So I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Model Fit, Bias, and Variance

So now let's talk about model fits and bias and variance. So in case your model has a poor performance, it could be for various reasons, then you need to look at what's called its fit. So we have overfitting, this is when your model is performing very well on the training data, but it doesn't perform well on the evaluation data. So here's an example of overfitting, where we have a lot of points and we just have a line that just links all these points. So, of course, this is going to work great on the training data because we are always predicting the point itself. But when we look at new data, which is not part of the training dataset, it is 100% sure that it will fall outside of this line. And therefore, we are overfitting. We're trying too hard to reduce the error on the training data. On the opposite end, you have underfitting. Underfitting is that the model is performing very poorly on the training data. So that means like, for example, on these data points right here, we have a horizontal line. This is a very bad model. It doesn't look at all like what the data is shaping like. And so it could be a problem of having a model that's too simple or you have very poor data features. What you're striving for is balanced. Balanced is neither overfitting or underfitting, and it looks something like this. This is a very balanced model. Of course, you have some error based on training data, but it looks like you are fully following closely the trend of your data. So remember overfitting, underfitting, and balanced, which brings me to bias and variance. So what is bias? Bias is the difference or the error between the predicted value and the actual value. And bias occurs normally because we can make, for example, the wrong choice in the machine learning process, but do you always have some bias. Here, for example, let's take our datasets, and we have a horizontal line to predict the data points. Obviously, it's a very bad choice, and so we are going to have a very high bias because the model doesn't closely match the training data. So this can happen, for example, when you have a linear regression, but your dataset is non-linear, it doesn't follow a straight line type of trend. So this is considered as underfitting when you have a very high bias. And some people like a visualization where you have like a circle, and this is like, imagine a dart board, and you're good if you hit the truth. The truth is in a center. If you have high bias, basically, you're going to be far from the truth every time, and so your data points are going to be away from the center. This is a high bias. So how do we reduce the bias? Well, of course, we can improve the model. Maybe use a more complex model that will fit better our datasets, or increase the number of features in case our data is not prepared well enough, and therefore, we need new features to predict and have a good machine learning model. On the next, we have variance. And variance represents how much the performance of a model will change if it's trained on a different dataset which has a similar distribution. So let me explain. If we take a dataset like this and we have something that is overfitting, we are going to try to match every single point, then as soon as we change the training data, then our model is going to change a lot. It's going to be very sensitive to changes. And so when you're overfitting, you're performing well on training data, but poorly on unseen test data, and therefore, you have very, very high variance. So when you have high variance, that means that your data is all over the place. It could be centered, like on average, things converge to the center, could be a low bias, but you have a lot of variance because if you change your model, then things will change. So how do you reduce the variance? Then you consider less features. You only consider the more important features. And you split the data into multiple sets into training and test data multiple times. So let me show you a representation so you can understand. This is overfitting and we have high variance. Again, to summarize, if we change the input dataset, our model is going to change completely. Underfitting is when you have high bias. Here, our model is not good. We have a lot of error on prediction of every of these data points. So it's not good. So what you're striving for is balanced. Balanced is low bias, low variance. Of course, you're going to have some variance because if you change your training dataset, your model is going to change, but, hopefully, only slightly. And, of course, you're going to have low bias and some bias because, well, your model is never perfect. You can't predict everything 100% of the time. But we want to have a balance between bias and variance. There's another type of visualization you can have to understand those. So this is a matrix of low variance, high variance, as well as high bias and low bias. And so the balanced use case is when you have low bias and low variance. And so all your data points are going to be in the center with a low variance. So all of them are going to be very well-centered. If you have a high bias but a low variance, you are underfitting. Again, that means that your data is wrong on average, but your model doesn't really change if you change your training datasets. And on the opposite end, if you have low bias and high variance, that means that you are overfitting. And that means that, for example, if you change your training dataset, then, your variance, your model is going to change tremendously. And finally, high bias, high variance, you just don't have a good model and you don't want to use it anyway. So, hopefully, you remember this from an exam perspective, understanding what is bias and what is variance, as well as underfitting, overfitting, and balanced is going to be very important. So hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Model Evaluation Metrics

Okay, so now let's talk about some of the metrics we can look at to evaluate our models. So let's take the example of a binary classification. So here we have the true value. So we know from our label data if an email is spam or not spam. And then, our model is going to make predictions. So, for example, the first email is correctly classified as spam, the second one is spam, but actually it wasn't spam. Here we're wrong as well. Here we're right here, we're right, and here we're wrong. So we have the true values, and then what our model predicted. And we can compare these two and make what's called a confusion matrix. So a confusion matrix is to look at what the predictive value was. Was it positive? So was it spam or negative? Was it not as bad? And then, we compare it to the actual value of being positive or negative, because we know this from our training datasets. So we have, on the top-left, true positives. That means that the predictive value is positive and the actual value was positive. But, on the top-right, we have false negatives. That means that we predicted it to be not spam, but actually it was spam. On the bottom-left, you have a false positive. So we thought it was spam, but actually it wasn't spam. And, on the bottom-right, we have true negative, which is that we predicted it was not spam and actually it was not spam. So we want to obviously maximize the number of true positives and true negatives and minimize the number of false positive and false negatives. And how do we make this matrix? Well, we're just going to look at our datasets. So we have 10,000 things we're trained on and what we're predicting on, and we're going to just count how many of these 10,000 fall in each category of this confusion matrix. Then we have some metrics on top of it that we can compute. The first one is called the precision. So we are looking at the number of true positives divided by the sum of true positives and false positives. So it's called precision because we're saying, "Hey, if you make the assumption that we find positives, how precise are you? How many times are you right about the positives versus how many times are you wrong about the positives?" So this is what the precision metric is doing. Recall is looking at true positives divided by true positives plus false negatives. And here we're saying, "Okay, how many times do you need to actually walk back," so recall, "your decision?" Then we have F1, which is two times the precision times the recall divided at precision plus the recall, which is a metric that's widely used for the confusion matrix. And, finally, we have the accuracy, and here's the formula, but it's rarely used. You don't need to remember now the formula, you barely need to remember what the metrics mean. But what you need to remember is that the precision, the recall, the F1, and the accuracy are metrics used to evaluate the accuracy of a binary classification, and this is what the exam will test you on. But I want to give you always a little bit of information so you understand what these mean. So the confusion matrix can also be multi-dimension. So that means that you can have multiple category for a classification and create a confusion matrix. So the purpose, from an exam perspective, of a confusion matrix is to evaluate the performance of the model that does classifications. Again, what metrics to choose best depends on what you're looking for, but precision is going to be best when false positives are costly, recall is going to be best when false negatives are costly. The F1 score is going to give you a balance between precision and recall, especially when you have an imbalanced dataset. And accuracy is rarely used, but only used for balanced datasets. What is a balanced dataset? It's a dataset that has a balanced level of classification for each categories. But if you're looking at spam and not spam for example, this is not a balanced dataset. Another metric you will see is AUC-ROC. So area under the curve for the receiver-operator curve. So it's a bit more complicated, but again, just remember the name, should be enough for the exam. But the value is from zero to one, one being the perfect model, and is going to compare sensitivity, so the true positive rates, to one minus specificity, which is the false positive rates. So here are the two axes. The first, the vertical axis, is saying how often your model has classified actual spam as spam, this is sensitivity. And then, the last one is how often is your model classifying not spam as spam? And so we are going to have a look at the curve of this, and we have like multiple models that can look like this. And model three, for example, the straight line is for a random model. And the more your model is accurate, the more the curve is going to lean towards the top-left. And so you're going to AUC is the area under the curve, so how much area is going to be under the curve that we draw? And to draw this line, and I'm trying to be as simple as possible, you're going to look in your model at various thresholds and you are going to make the threshold vary with multiple confusion matrices, and then you're going to plot this over time. And so when you want to compare what is the right threshold and what is the right model for you, this is a very good one, the AUC-ROC, so the area under the curve. Now, I went very quickly over it, but don't worry, it's just a way for you to say and to know that these curves, AUC-ROC, are looked at very heavily when trying to choose the best model for your binary classification. Now, if we look at a regression, how do we evaluate it? Well, remember this is the case of, for example, a linear regression. So we have our data points, and we're trying to understand what a line could represent these data points, and so we want to measure its accuracy by measuring the error, and the error is the sum of the distance between what the predictive value would've been and what the actual value is. So we have a different way of defining this error. And, again, just need to remember the names of the metrics, not necessarily how they work, but one is called the MAE, the mean absolute error, to compute the difference between the predicted and the actual value as a mean, so the absolute values. And then, you divide by how many values you have. Here we have the mean absolute percentage error. So here, instead of computing the actual difference of values, you compute how far off you are as a percentage. So it's the same idea, but this time you compute the average of these percentages. So MAE, MAPE, then you have the RMSE, root mean squared error, so the formula is a little bit more complicated. Here it is, but again, I don't wanna go too deep over it, especially if you don't have a math background. But the idea here is that you're trying to smooth out the error. And, again, RMSE is a way to evaluate the error for your regressions. And, finally, you have R squared, which is going to have a look at the variance in your model. And if your R squared is close to one, that means that your predictions are good. I'll try to keep it as simple as possible. From an exam perspective, just remember that MAE, MAPE, RMSE, and R squared are metrics used to give the quality of a regression and to see if it's going to be acceptable for us or not. And, of course, from a model optimization standpoint, we're going to try to minimize these errors' metrics so that we know that our model is accurate. So another word about these metrics, so MAE, MAPE, RMSE, R squared are all metrics used to evaluate models that predict a continuous value, for example, a regression. So, from an exam perspective, if you see a classification, you want to look into the metrics such as the one provided by the confusion matrix, accuracy, precision, recall, and so on, and F1. But if you're looking at a regression, something that provides you a continuous value, then you want to look at the metrics I just gave you right now. So imagine, for example, that you're trying to predict how well students did on the test based on how many hours they study. So if you look at error, measurements, metrics, such as MAE, or MAPE, or RMSE, then they're going to see how accurate the model is. For example, if your RMSE is five, that means that, on average, your model predictions are going to be about five points off from the actual student score. So it's very easy to quantify because we're saying, "Hey, the error is going to be about five." So easy to measure, easy to talk about. For R squared it's a little bit more difficult to understand, but it measures the variance. What does that mean? For example, if you have R squared of 0.8, that means that the 80% of the changes in the test scores can be explained by how much the students studied, which was our input feature. So that means that the number of hours they study can explain 80% of their score, and the remaining 20% can be due to other factors such as natural ability or luck. And, for example, these factors may not be captured by your model because they are not features in your model. So if you get a very good R squared close to one, that means that you can explain almost everything of the variance of the target variable thanks to the input features you have. So that's it for this lecture. By now, you should be able to understand which metrics are for classification and which metrics are for regression, and understand, at a high level, what these metrics do, and that should get you all the points you need at the exam. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Machine Learning - Inferencing

So let's quickly talk about inferencing. So inferencing is when a model is making predictions based on new data. So we have different kinds of inferencing. We have the real time inferencing. This is when our as a user will, for example, to put a prompt into a chat bot and we want an immediate response. So here the computers have to make decisions very quickly as they arise. And here you prefer speed over perfect accuracy because you want the response to be immediate. So chat bots are a very good example of what it means to have a real time inferencing. The other end of inferencing is batch inferencing. Here we want a large amount of data that is going to be analyzed all at once. So here we give a lot of data into a model. We can wait for the processing time to happen. It could be minutes, days, or weeks. And then we are going to get the results when they're ready. And so we are going to analyze them then. So it's often used for data analysis. And here you don't really care about speed, of course, the faster the better, but you can wait. And what you really want though is maximum accuracy. And this is another type of inferencing. Consider inferencing at the edge. So what is the edge? Well edge devices are usually devices that have less computing power and they're close to where your data is being generated. Usually in places where internet connections can be limited. So an edge device can be your phone, but your phone can be quite powerful. But edge device can be anything that's somewhere far in the world. So to run a full large language model on an edge device may be very difficult because you don't have enough computing power. And so therefore there is a popular trend, which are small language models that can run with limited resources and on edge devices. And you may want to load these SLMs on, for example, a Raspberry Pi, which is an edge device. And when loaded onto your edge device, you get very low latency because your edge device can just invoke the model locally. It's also a very low compute footprint, and you have offline capability with ability to use local inference. If you wanted to have a more powerful model, for example, on LLM, it would maybe be impossible to run it on an edge device. Maybe in the future it will, but right now it may be very difficult because you don't have enough computing power. So another alternative would be to run the LLM on a remote server, just like we've been doing so far, for example, on Amazon Bedrock. And then your edge device will do API calls over the internet to your server, to your model, wherever it's deployed, and then get the results. So the advantage here is that we can use a more powerful model because now the model lives somewhere else, but we have a higher latency because now the call needs to be made over the internet to get the results back. And also your edge device must be online and must have an internet connection in order to access the large language model. So the exam may ask you about the trade-offs and to choose the right solution for the use case presented. So let's say for this lecture, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Phases of a Machine Learning Project

So we have learned a lot about machine learning from a technical standpoint, but now let's talk about the implementation standpoint. So what are the phases of a machine learning project? So in this slide I'm going to show you a diagram, and then in the next slide I'm going to do a detail on this diagram. So first we need to identify a business problem we wanna solve. Then we frame that problem as a machine learning problem. Then we collect data and prepare this data. We go through a phase of feature engineering to transform the data into having features that can be helpful from a machine learning perspective. And then once we have prepared our dataset, we go into the machine learning part. So we're going to do model training, and then we are going to tune the parameters of the model that means how our algorithm is working. And then we're going to evaluate the model. So is it working on our test dataset? Do we get the results that we want? And next we ask ourselves the question, are the business goals met? If not, then we need to of course enhance the data to have more data or to have it better prepared. So if we need more data, we can do what's called data augmentation or if we want to improve the features, we can do feature augmentation. The idea is that you will do this process over and over and over again. And of course you're going to change your model if need be, and tune it better up until you have a satisfactory model. Once the model is satisfactory, you're going to test it and then you're going to deploy it. And once it's deployed, your users can do it. So it starts making predictions. And this predictions are certain users, but we wanna make sure that even though our users are getting predictions, that we are monitoring and debugging our model because it is possible that the predictions sometimes will be not good or that it will drift, or that things will change over time. So monitoring and debugging is a super important phase. And as we make predictions if they are correct, we want to add this data to our original data sets to make it even better and to retrain our model. So there is a sort of loop that goes on where this new data helps with data collection, it helps with feature engineering, and it helps with the model training. And so this is the phases of machine learning project. Now, I'm going to do a little deeper dive on all of these, but it should be pretty self-explanatory. So to define business goals, you must have the stakeholders of your project define the value, budget, and success criteria of your project. And you define a KPI a key performance indicator that is critical. Once you have this, you want to frame the problem as a machine learning problem. So there's a conversion that needs to happen, and we need to determine if machine learning is actually an appropriate solution to solve that problem, because sometimes it is not. So this is when the data scientists, the data engineers and the machine learning architects and any subject matter experts will collaborate to figure out all these things, how to convert the business problem into a machine learning problem. And if machine learning is appropriate. Once it is a machine learning project, then we need to do data processing. So we need to collect data and convert it into a usable format, and we need to make it centrally accessible in one place so that we can really analyze it all at once. Then we need to understand our data. So we need to pre-process it and also do data visualization to understand the type of data we are dealing with. And finally, before we go into machine learning algorithm, we need to do feature engineering. That means creating, transforming, and extracting variables out of the data. Once the data is ready, we go into model development. So here we train our model, we tune it, and we evaluate it against our data sets for example, our test data sets. It's a very iterative process, and as you develop your model, it's for sure going to feed back into your data processing because these two processes are very intertwined. So you're going to do additional feature engineering, and you're going to tune the model hyper parameters. They are the parameters that define how the algorithm is working. And just as a little note, one phase that is part of the beginning of your machine learning project is the exploratory data analysis phase. So this is where you're going to explore data, you're going to compute statistics, but also visualize the data with graphs to really understand the shape it has and how influential it is. And also you may want to build what's called a correlation matrix, which looks like this. So you look at all your variables, all your features, and you're going to compute how linked they are. So for example, if we compare how we studied to the test score, we can see 0.85. That means that whenever the hour studies are increasing, the test score is also increasing a lot. So they're positively correlated. It's not one because one would explain it perfectly, but it gives you an idea. And for example, if you sleep a lot, then you're going to have also a better test score. And also there's a correlation between our studies and sleep hours and so on. So this is just an example, but it helps you decide which features can be important in your model and how correlated they are. Next we are retrained. So if we retrain, we look at the data and the features to improve the model, and we adjust again the model training hyper parameters, then we deploy. So if the results are good, the model is going to be deployed and ready to make inferences. That means ready to make predictions for your users. And we select a deployment model. We'll see multiple ones. We've seen about real time, we've seen about batch, but you have serverless asynchronous on premises. So you select the deploy model you need, and then you go into monitoring. So that means deploying a system that will check if your model is operating at the desired level of performance. And with monitoring systems, you can do early detection of problems and also early mitigation of problems so that your users are not impacted. It's good to debug issues and also understand the model's behavior once deployed to production and iterations. So the model must be continuously improved and refined as new data becomes available because requirements may change. For example, imagine that you're doing something around clothing prediction. What is true today in terms of clothing trends may not be true in 10 years. People may wear different types of clothes. And so of course, retraining your model and making sure to monitor requirements is very important to do your iteration and making sure the model is accurate and relevant over time. So that's it. I hope you liked this lecture. Now you know how to conduct properly a machine learning project. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Hyperparameters

I also want to mention hyperparameter tuning in greater details. So, what is a hyperparameter? Well, it's the settings that define the model structure and the learning algorithm and process. So, it sets before the training begins. And different types of hyperparameters could be, for example: learning rate, batch size, number of epochs, and regularization. So, what does that mean? Learning rate is how fast you want the model to incorporate new data. Batch size is how many data points to consider at a time. Number of epochs is how many times you want to iterate on your model until you say you've converged to a good result. And regularization, to see how flexible the model should be. And so, these parameters don't have anything to do with your data, it's just about the algorithm you're using to train your model. And so therefore, you can do hyperparameter tuning because to have the best model performance, to optimize it, it's also a matter of finding the best hyperparameter values. And so by doing tuning, we're going to improve the model accuracy, reduce overfitting, and enhance generalization. So, how to do it? Well, you have several algorithms. For example, grid search or random search, or you can use services such as SageMaker Automatic Model Tuning, AMT, we'll see this again in this course to perform hyperparameter training, but it is a very important part of a machine learning project. So let's learn about the important hyperparameters that can come up at the exam so that you know if they're correct or not for answer. So we have the learning rate and this represents how large or small the steps are going to be when you update the model's weight during training. So if you have a higher learning rate, that means that your model is going to have a faster conversions, but there is a risk of you to overshoot the optimal solution because, well, you're going too fast for learning. And if you have a lower learning rate, it may be more precise and have the conversions to the optimal solution, but it may be slower. So, it's up to you to, of course, tune this hyperparameter. The batch size is how many training examples are used to update the model's weight during one iteration. So if you have a smaller batch size, it can lead to a more stable learning experience, but require more time to compute. And if you have a larger batch size, then it may be faster to go through your model, but it may lead to less stable updates. And for a number of epochs, this is to how many times the model is going to be iterating over the entire training dataset. So in the machine learning process, you're going to go many, many times over your entire dataset. We don't know with what batch has yet or with what learning rate, but number of epochs represent how many times you will go over the entire dataset. So if you have too few epochs, you will have underfitting. And if you have too many, you may cause overfitting because you're trying really, really hard to fit the data to the dataset you have by going many, many times over. You also have the regularization hyperparameter. So to make it super simple, it's to adjust the balance between a simple and a complex model. And the idea and what you should know for the exam is that if you want to reduce overfitting, then you need to increase the amount of regularization in your model. So these hyperparameters have no right or wrong type of answers. It's more about understanding what they are impacting and what they can lead to. And, of course, the role of a machine learning engineer, for example, or a data scientist, will be to tune and optimize these hyperparameters. So, what happens if you have overfitting? Well, overfitting is when the model is going to give you great predictions for the training datasets, but not for new data in production. So it can occur due to many things. For example, if your training data size is too small and does not represent all the possible values, then you will have overfitting. Or if you train for too long, so for too many epochs on a single sample set of data, again, this may lead to overfitting. Or if the model complexity is very high, it's going to actually learn not just from the features that are the most important, but also from the noise within the training data, and therefore, again, doing overfitting. So, how can you prevent overfitting? Well, a very easy way is for you to increase the training data size. That means that you're going to have a dataset that is going to be much more representative of all the possible values for your production data. Also, early stopping of the training of the model. So doing more epochs is not going to help with overfitting, opposite direction instead. And if you don't have enough diversity in your datasets, you may want to do data augmentation. And, again, we can adjust the hyperparameters, but you cannot add new hyperparameters. There are things fixed in time. So we have the learning rate, the batch size and the epochs, and we can try adjusting them. But usually, it's not the primary answer. The best answer is going to be to increase the training data size. Finally, you can try ensembling to combine multiple models to get more accurate results. Okay, so that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: When is ML not appropriate 

So we've talked a lot about AI and machine learning, but a question you may have is, when is machine learning not appropriate? So imagine you have a well-framed problem like this one. "A deck contains five red cards, three blue cards, and two yellow cards. What is the probability of drawing a blue card?" So if I were to ask you, we have 10 cards in total. Three of them are blue. So the blue probability is going to be 3 out of 10. And this is very easy. You just computed it. So therefore you should be able to write some computer code to actually determine this solution. So for deterministic problems, for example, for when the solution can be computed very easily, it's better to write computer code that is going to be adapted to the problem. If you use any kind of machine learning or AI technique such as supervised learning, unsupervised learning, or reinforcement learning, you may get an approximation of the results. That's why we measure error and so on. But here, we don't want to have an answer with error. We want to have the exact answer. I know some of you may say that nowadays some large language models have reasoning capabilities and therefore they can come up with the right answer. And that's true and they're getting better and better at reasoning, but their solution is not perfect. And so therefore, we have a worse solution. The best solution for a very well-defined problem will be to write code. So it's up to you to understand when ML is or isn't appropriate and the exam may ask you one question about it. Alright, that's it. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 7 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*