<!-- Section 13 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 13 OF 13: Wrapping Up
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  Wrapping Up

Oh my gosh, you made it! Thank you so much for choosing me and Stefan to prepare for the AWS Certified Machine Learning Engineer Associate Exam. It's a tough one, but if you've made it this far, your odds for success should be quite a bit better. We're just going to wrap up with some tips on the exam itself, what to expect, how to prepare further, and how to sign up for it. Once you're done, please consider leaving a written review for this course. It really helps us in prospective learners as well. Good luck on the exam. Let's wrap things up right now.

---

### Lecture: Walkthrough of the Exam Guide

An important tool for preparing for the exam is the exam guide from AWS. So let me show you how to get to that and kind of go through it a little bit quickly here. So if you go to the main web page for the exam on AWS, scroll down. Eventually you should see a link to the actual exam guide. There it is, and I've already downloaded it here. So let's kind of go through what's in there. So it starts off kind of saying at a high level what this thing is testing you for and who the target candidate is. If you've gotten this far in the course, then I hope you've already decided that this actually is a test for you. But if you go down, it gives you more specific information about what to expect on the exam, which is very important, right? Also interesting here is the job tasks that are out of scope for the target candidate. So kind of the difference between an associate level and a specialty or professional level exam is that it's not really getting into designing larger systems. It's more about the details of the components. So it says you don't necessarily need to be an expert in designing and architecting full end to end ML solutions, although certainly an ability to do that will be helpful. Understanding how these pieces fit together tells you what to expect on the exam itself. And this is new. So with the ML Engineering Associate exam, this is when they rolled out these new question types for ordering, matching and case study. And I'm going to talk about that in more detail in a couple of lectures from now. So do be prepared, even though there's still a lot of the old school multiple choice and multiple response question types. There are these new ones as well, so make sure you've gotten some practice with that. If you're using the official practice test from AWS, it does have some of those new question types peppered in there. So do make sure to take advantage of that. A lot of existing third party training platforms out there cannot support these new question types yet. So the only way to get practice with these is by using the AWS Practice Test. As of this recording, a little note on the beta exam, some of that will be unscored. So there are some questions that are just trying out as an experiment that won't affect your score. You don't know which ones they are, unfortunately, and it just tells you what to expect on the results. A passing score for this exam is considered 720, so don't freak out. Even if you feel like you're only getting like a C minus on the exam, that's still a passing score. It's ultimately just a pass or fail. Then it gets into the actual content that's in the exam and it says there are four main domains. So data preparation for machine learning, Machine learning. Model development. Deployment and orchestration of ML workflows. ML solution monitoring, maintenance and security. And this should all sound very familiar because these are all explicit sections in the course that we talked about in depth. Right. There's a reason for that. We worked backwards from this exam guide to develop the curriculum for this course. And you can see that these are spread out pretty evenly. So 28% for one, 26 for the other, 22 for another, 24 for another. Pretty much an even spread between these domains throughout the exam. So they're all more or less equally important to understand. So if you are feeling a less proficient in one of these domains, definitely go brush up on it because it's going to count. And then it gets into more detail about what's actually going to be tested within each domain. And again, we've worked backwards from this guide for this course. So all of this stuff should be in the course somewhere. But sometimes there might be even more depth than we provided. So it's a good idea to dig into the official documentation if you're not feeling like an expert on some of these systems. And I'm not going to go through these because that would take a very long time. But again, I encourage you to read through this and just sort of use this as a way of reviewing your own knowledge, if I don't really remember what Amazon FSX for NetApp is, maybe I should go back and refresh myself on that. So just a good last minute tool here to kind of review your learning and make sure that you've got a good understanding of everything that you can expect to be on the exam. Not everything that's listed here will actually be on the exam. It's just saying what might be on it. So, you know, it's a long list of stuff. They can't fit it all into one exam, but it's all fair game. So it's a good idea to make sure you understand everything that's being discussed here. Once we get through all these task statements and the details of what they're going to test on it, which goes on for quite a while, we end up in the appendix. And this is also a cool resource. It tells you what specific services you might need to know about. So if the associate level, a lot of the questions are going to be about the properties of this service, how do I use the service? What is this service for? How do I configure this service. Right. So good to go through these and make sure you at least understand what they all do. We did not cover all of these services in depth because if they weren't mentioned in the task descriptions above, I didn't get into them too much like you can assume. In that case, you just need to know what they are and what they do. So for example, Amazon Lambda, you know, you don't necessarily need to know the inner workings of Lambda for this exam, but you should at least know what it does. So you know that it's a service for running code in a serverless environment. Right. So at least make sure you know what these services do. At a minimum, if I didn't cover them in the course, there's a reason for that. It's because they weren't covered above in the actual task descriptions. But at least be familiar with these terms and know what they're for. They might show up in the form of distractors, for example. So you might have a list of services to choose from to solve a specific problem. Maybe some of the distractors, the ones that are incorrect might be from this list. So just make sure you know what they are so you don't get thrown for a loop, right? Most of them though, we did cover in depth, and furthermore there are services that are out of scope, so you don't need to know about these ones. It's good to know. That's why we didn't cover them long list. They're not too surprising because there's a lot of Amazon services and that's pretty much it. That's the exam guide. So again useful to go through this before you take the exam. Just as sort of a last check of your knowledge and an opportunity to go back and fill in any gaps in your knowledge and review things that might be on the exam guide that you kind of forgot about.

---

### Lecture: Additional Training Resources

In addition to this course, there are more ways to prepare for the exam, which I encourage you to do. You know, don't put all your eggs in one basket, right? So AWS Skill Builder has a whole suite of resources for you as well. A lot of their training materials are going to be redone with what you learned in this course, but can't hurt to reinforce it. They do have some training materials there for you to use. Um, odds are the free resources they offer are sufficient, so they do have a enhanced exam prep plan that you can pay for that has deeper training material. You can do that if you want to. It does have a cool things like game based learning and experiential learning and stuff like that. So if you do have time for that at present, that's a 41 hour long learning path. So if you got the time to go through that, you'll definitely learn more that way. But if your purpose is just to pass the exam, the free standard exam prep plan is probably enough. The important thing is that that includes a 20 question practice test. And because this exams got a few new exam question types that we're going to talk about shortly that might be your only real option for getting a realistic experience for practicing with the exam itself. So you definitely want to go take advantage of that. So head on over to AWS Skill Builder, sign in and take advantage of that standard exam prep plan, which includes that practice question set. You definitely want to do that link here if you want to get to it. Um, but you know, Google will find that for you as well. Once you get into those practice exams, they're a little bit hard to find. So eventually in Skill Builder, you'll find this associate official practice question set. And it looks like this. You got to click on that see more link to actually get to the practice test itself. So if you're kind of confused about the navigation here, that's how you get to the actual practice exams. I would also recommend going through the SageMaker development guide in depth. Um, most of this test is about SageMaker, so there's a lot of information. It's a huge ecosystem. Reviewing the official documentation is a great idea, especially if there's new things that come up that I did not cover in this course. So a little link there for you to get to it. Or just search for SageMaker Developer Developer Guide. Google is your friend, but definitely good to review that ahead of the exam. Also, we already went through Amazon's exam guide, but here's a link to it. Again, definitely good to review this and sort of do a little mental inventory of hey, do I understand all these things that it lists and calls out, do I know about the basics of all of these different services that I need to know about? Keep in mind, not every service that's listed as being in scope for the exam is something you need to know about in depth. You know, I wouldn't expect you to have to know about the inner workings of Lambda, for example. You just need to know what it's for. That's why we didn't cover it in this this course. I mean, as long as, you know, if you need to run some code in a serverless setting, Lambda is a tool to use for that. That's probably enough, right? But yeah, definitely review that before the exam as well. Just as a last check to make sure you know what to expect on the exam. And again, Amazon does have larger learning paths available here. Here's a link to that as well. This just summarizes the different courses that they offer. And again we will have covered the important ones as part of this course as well. But if you want to reinforce that further it's free. So why not? I would also consider taking the certified AI practitioner exam first. It's a much easier exam, but it covers a lot of the foundational details, like what the different services are for, how bedrock works, how to put these things together. So it would be a more natural progression to go from the foundation level exam on AI to this much more complex exam. So you could go the other way too, and kind of use this as an easy win after passing the machine learning engineer exam, but might be a good idea to start off with AI practitioner. Just be aware the complexity of the questions you're going to get on the associate level exam are an order of magnitude greater than what you're going to see on the foundational practitioner exam.

---

### Lecture: Overview of the New Question Types (Ordering, Matching, Case Study)

All right. So if you're taking this like in late 2024 or early 2025, you might be surprised to learn that there are some brand new question types that are being rolled out with this exam. Both the AI practitioner exam and the new Machine Learning Engineer Associate exam are going to have three new question types we've never seen before on AWS certification exam. So this might throw you for a loop. Be ready for it. Now the old question types are still there and they're still predominant. So we still have multiple choice questions where you have one correct answer out of four choices. And we still have multiple response questions where there might be two or more correct answers to choose from out of five or more choices with a multiple response question. By the way, there's no partial credit. You have to identify all of the correct answers. It's all or nothing if you want credit for that question. However, there's three new ones being introduced with this exam. There's an ordering question type that requires you to choose the correct 3 to 5 responses and place them in the correct order. So not only do you need to select the correct steps to solve some problem, you need to put those steps in the correct order as well. And again, there's no partial credit. You have to choose the right responses and get them in the right order to get credit for that question at all. There's also a new matching question type that allows you to match responses to 3 to 7 different prompts. Again, there's no partial credit for that. So you got to get them all right for that to count. And there's also a case study question type. This one I like because it reuses the same scenario across two or more questions. So it's kind of like multiple choice except that it's reusing that same scenario across more than one question. So in previous certification exams you spent most of your time just kind of wrapping your head around the case study that the question was about. Right. So this means that you can save some of that time by using that same scenario across more than one question. So you just have to understand the scenario once, and you can reuse that in your brain across multiple questions, which is kind of a nice thing. In that case, each question is evaluated separately. They count as individual questions even though they share that same scenario. So, you know, it's kind of a way of getting partial credit, but it's really just multiple questions that have the same context. What does this actually look like. So this is what an ordering question might look like. This comes from the AWS blog where they announced all these changes. So you see here we're given a list of steps to achieve some goal, in this case encrypting a Amazon RDS database. And you need to choose the correct steps and put them in the right order. So that's step one. Drop down will have a list of all of those choices above. You got to pick the right one that comes first, the right one that comes second and the right one that comes third. And again, you got to get all three of those right and in the right order for that question to count as correct. You will also see matching question types and kind of interesting right. So in this case you have to match these statements with the correct choice. In this example here we have two different S3 storage classes. And you have to fit these into sentences that describe when to use each one. So application logs are retrieved daily. For analysis. You'd have a drop down to let you choose from S3, glacier flexible retrieval or S3 standard, and so on and so forth. And again this counts as one question. So you got to get all four of those right in this example to get credit for that question. Kind of tough. But at least it's pretty quick. And finally we have case studies. So in this case we are recycling a scenario across more than one question. Here we have the case study that's broken out into its own little section here where we describe the scenario a company is migrating an e-commerce application to AWS. Whatever it is. Question one of two. Here's a multiple selection question. Based on that scenario, question two of two might be a multiple choice question. There might be more than two. Even so, again, not too tough to wrap your head around this one. It's just recycling that same scenario across multiple questions, which will save you a little bit of mental energy. That's a good thing.

---

### Lecture: What to Expect

Let's go through what to expect on the exam itself. Hopefully you won't need that full time. That's a long time to sit and think about AWS. And in the final exam there will be 65 questions to get through during that time. Make sure you take the time to fully understand each question. That is really the key to success here, so don't just skim over the scenario. If they're asking you to optimize for some specific thing, or there's some little detail there, it's important to really know what the question is asking, because otherwise you might miss some little nuance that makes the difference between a correct answer and an incorrect answer. Oftentimes, there seems to be more than one right answer, even in a multiple selection exam question. But those little nuances in the setup might make the difference as to which one is. The more appropriate, the better answer between those ones that might possibly work. They have a flag capability. As you're taking these questions, so do take the time to go back and double check things. If you're not sure about your answer to a question, hit that flag icon and then when you're done, if you have time left over, you can go back and review those flagged questions again to give them a little bit more thought and have another go at it. Keep in mind you cannot bring anything into the room if you're dealing with a in-person exam, and even if you're doing an online proctored exam, you have to make sure there's nothing in the room that might be used for cheating. They will make you actually turn your webcam around to confirm that the room is basically empty. Uh, if it's in person, you're allowed note paper or a dry erase board and earplugs. Um, if you're taking this online, though, you're not even allowed that. So it's just you and the computer screen. So schedule these exams smartly. Make sure you've mastered any practice exams that are available first before you schedule this thing. Don't push yourself further than you need to. Choose a time of day for scheduling that matches your highest energy level. Remember, you're going to need stamina to get through this thing. And remember, different testing providers may have different availability. So if you don't see a time slot that works for you from one provider, you might want to try another before you head in. Make sure you use the bathroom or whether that's in person or at home, because three hours is a long time to go right, especially if you just had a big cup of coffee. Uh, so take care of any biological needs ahead of time. You're not going to be allowed a bathroom break. You might want to eat something first just to keep your blood sugar up. Keep your brain energized, but not right beforehand. That might actually decrease your energy immediately. So get a good breakfast a little bit ahead of time. If you can. Get a good night's sleep the nights before. I know that's a tall order. Easier said than done, but whatever you can do to make that happen and review anything you might need to memorize before going in, you know little details that you might have forgotten about, like the difference between recall and precision, for example, or the difference between different regularization techniques. Be alert. You know, whatever works for you. I've got some cans of energy drinks here on the screen here. If that's not your cup of tea. Hey, maybe actual tea is what works for you. Whatever works, do some exercise. You know, get your blood pumping, make sure you got the energy to get through this thing because it really is draining. And make sure you're ready. You know, you got $300 on the line if it's a beta exam. Yeah, it's cheaper, but still it's money. Don't waste it. So take the practice exams, review the slides of this course. Do it repeatedly. Make sure you're prepared. Because this is not an easy exam. They're going to quiz you on little details that you probably don't deal with on a day to day basis. Some general exam strategies don't rush. So you're going to have about two minutes per question for the time that you have. So pace yourself. You know, don't feel like you have to rush through each question in 30s. So take the time to understand what you're being asked to optimize for, what the requirements are for the question, and what's being told to you about the system as a whole that you're designing against? So make sure you fully understand the question before you try to answer it. Don't just skim them. That's the path to failure. And if you're not sure, you can use the process of elimination. So even if you don't know the correct answer, there's probably some you can eliminate pretty easily. So that will increase your odds of getting the correct answer, at least if you can eliminate some of the incorrect ones. Keep calm. You know it's going to be a tough exam. You might freak out a little bit because you're going to say, oh wow, this is tougher than I thought. You're not going to get 100%. Nobody does. Right? You don't have to, though. It's pass or fail. So even if you think you're not doing that well, there's a good chance you passed anyway. So keep calm. Don't get freaked out. Just try and get through it. It's a tough. It's a grueling exam. From what I've seen so far, it's way more challenging than you would expect for an associate level exam. I think it's every bit as difficult as the specialty level exam as well. Um, the difference is that it's not really focusing on higher level system design so much, but the details it expects you to know are still pretty deep. Anyway, with these tips in hand, I hope you're well prepared to walk into that exam and pass it with flying colors.

---

### Lecture: Exam Walkthrough and Signup

So now is the time to sign into your AWS Certification accounts. For this, you go to this URL, aws.training/certification, and then you click on Sign In. From there, you're going to have to create an AWS Builder ID, which is a specific account for AWS certifications. So you click on it, you go through the process, and then you'll be good to go. After you sign in, click on Go to Your Account, and this is going to take you into the certification portal. And in here you have several options. So in this video I'm going to show you how to schedule an exam, but I strongly recommend as well that you watch the next two videos. One is around exam accommodations to get extra time if you're not a native English speaker, which can really help you during your exam. And also, I will show you certification benefits on how to sometimes get 50% on your next AWS exam. So please make sure to watch these videos next. But right now, lemme show you the exam registration. So you click on Exam Registration and schedule an exam. And in here, we have at the bottom, the exams we can pass. So some of them are going to be authorized, some of them are going to be click to authorize to schedule. So you click on Authorize and it will just do something, and then schedule is available. So I'm not sure why you have to authorize things, but here it is. Okay, so now let's say for example, that we want to schedule the AWS Certified Developer Associate Exam. So click on Schedule, and this is going to take you into the Pearson VUE portal, which is going to be the exam schedule partner of AWS. So in here, we have several options. We can specify to want to take the exam in person at a test center or online with OnVUE. So this is when you want to actually go somewhere and take it in a specific room, because for example, you don't wanna take it from home. So in that case, you need to bring your photo ID, you need to make sure that you understand how it works, and what you can and cannot bring during the test. You would click on Next. And in the following pages, you are able to select the language you want to take your exam in. So different options based on where you're from. And finally, you can also select where you want to take it. And so for this, you're going to have to agree to these conditions, first of all, and then find a place. So you would just enter an address, and then you would look at different addresses where you can actually take your exam. So the alternative is to do online with OnVUE, and I like it because you're at home, it's very easy to take it. So you need your computer with a webcam and a good internet connection. And here it says Run system test. And I strongly, strongly, strongly recommend you to run the system test way before your exam so you make sure everything is good. Your testing space must be clear of everything. So you'll need put nothing on your desk, remove everything, and make sure that the person controlling that will be asking you to show your desk and so on. So there are some examples here. Bring an ID, and then you need to check in about 30 minutes before your appointment time just to make sure that you are going to be attending your exam on time. Then you click on Next. You choose your language again. Then you agree to all the things that you need to agree about, making sure you are taking this space, this exam from your home. Then you agree, then you choose the language you want the person who is going to check your desk, and so on, to speak, so you have these options, but this is different from your exam version. This is just to check you in. Then, what is your time zone. Finally, selecting a date, selecting a time, and then booking, and finally, completing the payments. And adding a voucher, if you have a discount voucher, which I will show you how to do it in the next lecture. So that's it. Now, once the exam is scheduled, to actually take it, maybe it'll appear upon a coming exam, but the way I like to do it is to go on Home, Dashboard. And when you're ready, before your exam, you click on Manage my Pearson VUE account, which is going to take you, again, to the homepage of Pearson VUE. And from there, you will be seeing a launch exam button, which is very easy to access. So you'll have here, the exam appearing, and you just click on Launch, and you're good to go. All right, so that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Save 50% on your AWS Exam Cost!

So I want to show you a trick in which you can actually get 50% off your AWS exam if you have taken one before. So as soon as you pass an AWS exam successfully, you're going to get tokens, which are going to give you 50% on your next exam. And the ones that are unclaimed will be as unclaimed. So these two are unclaimed right here, and there's an expiry date. And then to get the actual exam, you would click on Claim Benefits. Once you have claimed a benefit, they will appear as claimed. And here you get a voucher code. So this code right here, you would copy it, and this will give you 50%. So how to apply it, well, when you go into your cart and you are about to pay, so you click on Proceed to Checkout. So then you have to enter the payment. And here you can add a voucher promo code in this box right here. And this is the code that you would obtain right here. So you would get the code and then apply it. And now you see that I have a discount on my total cost. So this is great. So I hope this trick will save you a lot of money. I hope you liked this lecture, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Get an Extra 30 Minutes on your AWS Exam - Non Native English Speakers Only

So if you're not an English speaker, one thing you can do is actually request for more time and request accommodation. So on the left hand side, under exam registration, click on exam accommodation and you can request an extra 30 minutes for non-native English speaker. So click on this and then select the ESL +30 minutes and then you could add documentation if you needed to, and then request the accommodation. Once it's done, it's approved and it doesn't expire. And now you can go ahead and schedule your exam so if you had exam schedule before, you need to cancel them. And now select schedule exam again. And this time the 30 minutes accommodation will be taken into account and you will have more time for your exam. If you need any other accommodation, then you can directly request it from Pearson View exam on their websites, but that's the one that people use the most usually as a non-native English speaker like me because I'm French. Okay, so that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. I wish you the best of luck for your exam and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Certification Paths

So, congratulations, you are about to attempt an AWS certification, but there is so much more on your journey. So AWS is made of foundational certifications, associate level certifications, professional level certifications, as well as specialty level certifications. And based on the type of role you want to have, they recommend different paths. So all these paths can be found in a document on the URL that have linked below in the bottom-right corner. So we have the architecture path. So if you wanna become a solutions architect, for example, to design, develop, and manage cloud infrastructure and assets, you need to do these certifications. So if you already know about the cloud and in IT, no need to do Cloud Practitioner, but I still think it's a good one. And then if you want to leverage AI, they recommend the AI Practitioner Foundational Certification. Then you move on to Solution Architecture Associate, Solutions Architect Professional. And if you want to dive deep, the Security Specialty would be really recommended. If you're more into application architecture, so this is around the user interface, the middleware, the infrastructure, and so on, then they recommend to have the same as before, but you add the Developer Associates and then you go into DevOps Engineer Professional. And then if you wanted to dive deep, the Solutions Architect Professional certification. So if you're into operations, you can be a systems administrator and your role is to install, upgrade, and maintain computer components and software and to integrate automation processes. In which case, Cloud Practitioner followed by SysOps Administrator Associate is a good one. And to do a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional. If you're a cloud engineer and your role is to implement and operate an organization network computing infrastructure and implement security systems to maintain data safety, then you have Cloud Practitioner Foundational, SysOps Administrator Associate, Security Specialty, and for a deep dive, DevOps Engineer Professional and Advanced Networking Specialty. If you're into DevOps, for example, you can be a test engineer, your role is to embed testing and quality best practices for software development from design to release throughout the product lifecycle. In which case, we have Cloud Practitioner, then Developer, and then DevOps Engineer. If you're a cloud DevOps engineer, then your role is to design, deploy, and operate large-scale global hybrid cloud computing environments and to advocate for end-to-end automated CI/CD pipelines. So in that case, you would go from Cloud Practitioner Foundational to Developer Associate and then optionally, do SysOps Administrator. And then if you are into machine learning, then doing the Machine Learning Engineer Associate could be a very good one. And finally, for a deep dive, the DevOps Engineer Professional Certification. If you're a DevSecOps engineer, so your role is to accelerate enterprise cloud adoption while enabling rapid and stable delivery capabilities using CI/CD principles, methodology, and technology. Then it is recommended for you to start with Cloud Practitioner, then SysOps Administrator Associates, Machine Learning Associate if you are working with AI and ML projects, DevOps engineer, and finally, Security Specialty. If you are into the security space, you can be a cloud security engineer and your role is to design computer security architecture and develop detailed cyber security designs. Then you develop, execute a new track performance of your security systems to protect information. So Cloud Practitioner Foundational is a good one to start with. If you're working with AI and ML systems, AI Practitioner Foundational is also a very good one. Then we have SysOps Administrator, and finally, Security Specialty. And for a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional and Advanced Networking Specialty is a good idea as well. If you're a cloud security architect, then your role is to design and implement enterprise cloud solutions, applying governance to identify, communicate, and minimize business and technical risks. In that case, you have Cloud Practitioner, then AI Practitioner Foundational, then Solution Architect Associate, and then Security Specialty. And you can do a deeper dive on Solution Architect Professional. If you're into development and networking. So for development, you go and you as a software development engineer, you develop and you will maintain software across platforms and devices, so Cloud Practitioner, AI Practitioner Foundational, Developer Associate and then DevOps Engineer. And if you're just into networking, then as a network engineer, you need to design your LANs and your WANs, so you have the Cloud Practitioner Foundational, Solutions Architect Associate, Advanced Networking Specialty, and for a deeper dive, Security Specialty. If you are in the data analytics space, you can be a cloud data engineer to do the automation of collection and processing of structure or semi-structured data, and you can monitor the data pipeline performance, in which case, Cloud Practitioner, then Solutions Architect Associate, then Data Engineer is your way to go. And for a deeper dive, you can do Security Specialty. And if you're working on AI and ML project, Machine Learning Engineer Associates. If you are in AI or in machine learning, you can be a machine learning engineer and your role is to research, build, and design artificial intelligence systems that will automate predictive models and design machine learning systems, models, and schemes. So here, you can do Cloud Practitioner and then AI Practitioner Foundational, Solution Associate, and then Machine Learning Engineer Associate. And then for deeper dive, Data Engineer Associate and Machine Learning Specialty. Then if you're a prompt engineer, your goal is to design, test, and refine text prompts to optimize the performance of an AI language model. So here, we're talking about Cloud Practitioner and very important AI Practitioner Foundational. Then we have Machine Learning Engineer Associate. And then finally, Machine Learning Specialty for a deep dive. If you're a machine learning ops engineer, you're more on the operation side, so this is where you maintain the platform and infrastructure. So you're going to be around Cloud Practitioner, AI Practitioner of course, and then Solutions Architect Associate and Machine Learning Associate, and for a deeper dive, Data Engineer and DevOps Engineer. And if you are a data scientist, your role is to develop and maintain AI and machine learning models to solve business problems. And you train and fine tune these models to evaluate their performance. And so therefore, you should do Cloud Practitioner Foundational, AI Practitioner Foundational, then Solution Architect Associates, Machine Learning Engineer Associates, and then Machine Learning Specialty. And you'll be good to go. So that's it for your learning journey on AWS certifications. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 13 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*