<!-- Section 2 of 4 | Course: awsdatabase -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 2 OF 4: RDS
**Course:** `awsdatabase`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to RDS

In this video, we'll learn about the basic concepts of the AWS Relational Database Service, or RDS. So RDS is going to allow us to run databases inside of an AWS VPC. And let's start just by comparing RDDs to EC2. So many of you are probably already somewhat comfortable with EC2, and an EC2 instance is a virtual server running inside of an AWS VPC. So it's going to be very similar to RDS, but there are some major differences. So when I create an EC2 instance, I'm going to choose the operating system. I'm going to choose the instance type and I'm going to manage the operating system. So this is what we call an unmanaged service I manage the operating system, I install whatever applications I want. I have to patch the operating system. I have to update the operating system. I have to manage all of my applications. All of the management of this EC2 instance is my responsibility. So EC2 is not a managed service. However, RDS is a managed service. So when we create an RDS instance, we'll see in some of our demos here that we're going to choose the instance type. We're going to choose the database engine. But we do not have direct access to the operating system. We don't have the ability to patch or update the database engine. AWS is going to handle all of that for us. And so because of that, because the backups are handled for us, snapshots multi-az all of the operating system and database engine upgrades and patches are handled. For us, this is considered a managed service. So RDS is going to allow us to run relational databases. And because it's a managed service, many of the common database administration tasks are going to be performed for us automatically. RDS supports MySQL, MariaDB, Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL, and Aurora. Those are the different database engines that are supported by RDS, and there's different features and versions of those database engines that are supported. And because RDS is a managed service, we will not have shell access. Shell access to the operating system itself is unavailable. Because this is a managed service, AWS is going to provide backups, software patching, failure detection and recovery. We're going to get support for on demand snapshots and automated backups. So the capacity that's available depends on the different database engines. There's different limitations for different types of database engines. There are also different types of storage volumes that we can choose from. We'll take more of an in-depth look at those options later on. The RDS instances are going to run inside of a VPC with a private subnet. Again, that's something that will take a closer look at later on. But the idea here is that we're going to have control over the networking configuration. And we can create firewall rules to protect our databases. We can monitor using CloudWatch. This will give us the ability to do things like look at performance charts, generate alarms, and generate automated actions based on those alarms. The underlying storage is an EBS volume. This is the same type of storage that's used for EC2. One of the big differences, though, is that with RDS, we can automatically scale our storage. So as we begin to run out of storage capacity for our database, more storage can be automatically added without any intervention from us, and we can also specify the maintenance window during which we want upgrades to be performed. AWS is going to perform those upgrades and carry out that maintenance for you, so we will simply tell them the preferred time slot during which can perform these maintenance tasks. From a billing perspective, you're going to be billed based on the type of instance you deploy and the database engine that you choose. There are price differences between the different database engines. You're also going to be billed based on the storage capacity that you use, the amount of storage throughput that you consume, and the number of reads and writes that actually occur, and the amount of storage capacity that you're consuming for your backups. There are also considerations when it comes to data transfers, especially when we're sending data across multiple availability zones. Again, this is something we'll take a closer look at later on. We have the ability to choose between on demand instances and reserved instances. On demand instances you're going to be billed per hour, and these are more expensive per hour than a reserved instance. With a reserved database instance, you're going to enter into a long term agreement of either 1 or 3 years, but you're going to get significant discounts based on that. So on your screen here, you can see a link for the page that I'm looking at. This is a list of the different RDS instance types that are available. And again if you've worked with EC2, this is relatively similar to what you're going to see there. There are general purpose RDS instance types that are burstable. And these instances are going to be very balanced. They're going to give you a balance of compute, networking and memory resources. And these are designed for databases that experience temporary spikes in use. That's what Burstable is all about. It's going to give you the performance when you need it, but it's also going to be cost effective during times of less heavy usage. And so all of these instances will have a family and a generation and a size in the name. So in this case, for example, a DB T4G micro T is the family. That's general purpose four. That's the generation. So this instance is the fourth generation of this type. And then we've got the size. We can go from micro to small to medium all the way up to two x large. The larger the size the more resources you get. There are also memory optimized RDS instance types. These feature high performance memory technology, more bandwidth and faster storage. And you can see here the format of the instance types is the same. They're going to have a family. In this case the R is memory optimized seven. That's the generation. And then we've got different sizes available. So you can pick the right size of database instance that meets your needs, and the size of the instance that you choose. And the type of the instance will impact your pricing. So let's take a moment to look at the pricing for MySQL. Now, the database engine that you choose will also have a big impact on pricing as well. And so let's take a quick look at what some of the pricing looks like. If we're doing a single availability zone, you can see the price per hour for all of these instances is shown here. And we can also take a look here at the pricing for reserved instances. And by the way, you'll see a link shown here on your screen. If you want to look at the pricing page that I'm showing you right now. But basically the idea with a reserved instance is that if you're willing to enter into a long term agreement, then you're going to save a significant amount of money on the hourly rate that you pay for a database instance. So, for example, if I enter into a three. Your agreement. My hourly rate for AT4G micro instance is going to be 0.8 cents per hour. If I compare that with the on demand price, the on demand price is double that cost. And so that's the benefit of a reserved instance, is that our price is much lower. The downside of a reserved instance, however, is the fact that we have to enter into this long term agreement with an on demand instance. I can just delete it whenever I want and stop paying for it. And the final thing that I just want to mention here before we move on is that under pricing, we have different pricing for all of these database engines. So the pricing for Oracle, for example, is going to be very different than the pricing for MySQL. And we can even bring our Oracle licenses. That'll save us a significant amount of cost here. But if we don't already have Oracle licensing we can get the license from AWS. Now if we're getting Oracle licensing with RDS, we are paying for the software licensing in our hourly rate. So our hourly rate is going to be significantly higher if AWS is providing us with the necessary licensing to run a database engine.

---

### Lecture: RDS Networking and Subnet Groups

Before we can start creating our RDS instances. There's some networking requirements that have to be set up and established. So let's take a moment to review those before we actually start demoing this and creating our first set of RDS instances. So RDS is going to run within a VPC. Let's take a moment to explore how that works. Step one we need to choose our region. We'll pick an AWS region that we want to deploy our RDS instances within. And then within that region we will create a VPC a virtual private cloud. And I do not recommend using the default VPC. The default VPC is not very secure. It's got public subnets, and it's got some rules that are pretty much wide open. So if you're creating a database that you want to keep private. The default VPC really isn't a good option. You should create your own VPC. And in this example you can see the Cidr range of the VPC. The Cidr range is simply a range of available IP addresses that exist inside of that VPC. That's something that you have to set up when you create your VPC. So the VPC is essentially the network that your RDS instances are going to exist within. And then I can take that VPC and I can divide it up into multiple subnets. Now, each of these subnets is going to include a portion of the addresses of my Cidr range. So you can see this subnet contains some of the addresses from my Cidr range. And the subnets are used to divide up the resources within my VPC. So I might have all different kinds of workloads running inside of this VPC. I might have RDS instances, but I might also have EC2 instances for example. And maybe those EC2 instances are going to be web servers or things like that. Well, I don't want to put those different types of workloads in the same subnet. I'll use different subnets to separate those systems and apply different sets of security rules to them. And most of the time the instances that we create are going to exist within a private subnet. And a private subnet is not accessible from the internet. And it does not give public IP addresses to instances. And that's good from a security perspective. If I'm looking to protect the contents of this database, a private subnet is ideal. Now when we create these subnets, we're going to place each subnet into a specific AWS availability zone. And the idea behind these availability zones is I want to protect my applications from failure. So if I put one instance into availability zone one, let's say I may want to create another RDS instance in a different availability zone. We're going to learn much more about this when we learn about Multi-az RDS, how we can create databases that span multiple availability zones, and if one availability zone goes down, the other availability zone has an RDS instance within it that simply takes over. So much more on this later. But just to get started, I need at least two subnets and I need them in different availability zones if I'm going to create a highly available database. And that's basically what a subnet group is. A subnet group is a collection of subnets that our database will reside within. So one of the things we're going to have to do before we create our RDS instances is create a subnet group. A group of subnets that as I now start creating RDS instances, the RDS instance will be dropped into one of these subnets. So when you create an RDS instance, you'll choose the subnet group that you want it in. And then RDS will automatically choose one of those subnets. It'll create the RDS instance and assign an IP address to it. And assuming that we are using private subnets, the RDS instance will get a private IP address and it will not get a public IP address. It will not be publicly reachable through DNS. None of that stuff will be available from the internet. And this becomes really important in the case of Multi-az RDS. So with Multi-az RDDs, a second RDS instance called a standby will be created in one of the other subnets in my subnet group inside of a different availability zone. And so I can have applications that maybe under normal circumstances are using this RDS instance. But if it fails, all of their traffic dynamically starts hitting this other RDS instance in a different availability zone. This is why I need multiple subnets in my subnet group, and this is why I need those subnets to be in different availability zones. And so here we see a third subnet inside of this same VPC. And this might be a public subnet. We've got an EC2 instance running inside of this subnet. This is our database client. And notice here that I have the database client inside of the same availability zone as my primary RDS instance. This helps us to avoid transfer charges. So most of the time as a general rule within AWS if you're sending traffic from one availability zone to another, that's going to be billable, that's going to result in transfer charges. So under normal circumstances, we want to keep as much of our traffic inside of the same availability zone as we possibly can. I also want to make one quick side note here. In this case, this EC2 instance is going to be what we would refer to as our database client. There's some application running on this. So maybe this is a web server. And on the back end it's working with this database. So in that case this EC2 instance may be in a public subnet. And I'm going to set up my database client to point to this database server. And I'm not going to use the IP address of the database server. I'm going to use the DNS name. Because essentially, if a failure were to occur, let's say that this RDS instance goes down well, this RDS instance has a specific IP address. And if I've pointed my database clients to that specific IP and that database fails, then I'm out of luck. But if I have pointed my database clients to the DNS name of the RDS instance, that will actually fail over to the standby RDS instance and my application will continue to function. So. So just as a good side note, when you configure your database clients, they should refer to the RDS instance using its DNS name, not its IP address. And again, I've placed the database client in the same availability zone as the RDS instance itself. Because as a rule of thumb, any time I'm working with AWS, if I'm sending traffic across availability zone boundaries, it's going to be billable. There is one notable exception to that. If I have set up Multi-az SSDs, if I have a primary RDS instance in one AZ and a standby in a second AZ. The replication traffic between those is not billable. And again we'll talk more about this Multi-az RDS stuff later on. But I just want you to understand the transfer charges, because that tends to be a little bit of a gotcha. People tend to think, well, now we can forecast how much we're going to spend on our database instance. You know, we know how much the instance costs. We know how much the database engine costs, we know what the storage costs are. And then all of a sudden it costs more than you thought because there's transfer charges there that you weren't anticipating. So that's just something to kind of watch out for as you're designing your deployment.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Create a VPC and RDS Subnet Group

In this video, we'll set up the networking requirements for RDS by establishing a VPC and subnet groups. So here you can see I've logged into the AWS console. And I'm currently in the Ohio region. All of my demos are going to take place in the Ohio region. And so if you're following along at home you may want to choose the same region. And I'm just going to go to VPC. I can just click on this little link here. Or I can go to my search bar. I can type in VPC and I can find it that way. I'll go to the VPC dashboard and I'm going to create my own VPC. There might already be VPCs here. There's going to be a default VPC available. I don't want to use that. I'm going to create my own custom VPC. And so let's go to VPC. Now I'm going to keep this as simple as possible. So I'm going to use the VPC. And more option. And I'm just going to call my VPC RDS Dash demo. And I'm going to assign a Cidr range to the VPC. I'm going to use the same Cidr range that I used in my slide deck. There's the IP address range that's going to be present inside of my VPC. I want two different availability zones. In this case I don't want any public subnets. I'm just going to be deploying some instances that are going to be in private subnets. So I'm just going to choose private subnets only. I can customize the Cidr ranges used for those private subnets. The rule of thumb is if you're not sure how many addresses to use here, maybe do a slash 24. So instead of doing a slash 20, that's going to consume way more address space, I'm going to do slash 24 as my address ranges here, 256 IPS per subnet should be more than enough. And I'm not going to bother with a Nat gateway or a VPC endpoint in this case. But if you want to, you could just deploy a VPC endpoint. That's fine. And in this case I'm enabling DNS host names and DNS resolution. Yes I want to go with all of those options. So I'm just going to go ahead and click create VPC. And it's going to automatically go through the process of creating route tables and subnets and network ACLs and all of that good stuff for me. So now that my VPC is present, I can go to AWS and I can start to create my subnet groups, because if I go to my VPCs, here's the VPC that I just created called RDS demo. And if I go to subnets here, you can see I've got two subnets that are created in my demo VPC. So if you have multiple VPCs like I do you can just sort these here. These two subnets are for my demo VPC. And you can see the name of the VPC is telling you which availability zone each of these subnets are within. So I've got one subnet in availability zone two A and another subnet and availability zone two B. I've got two different subnets in two different availability zones okay. So that's the foundation for networking here. That's what I absolutely must require. And so the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to go to RDS. I'm just going to go up to my little search bar here, type in RDS and go to the RDS dashboard and under RDS I'm going to click on Subnet Groups. I want to create a new subnet group. You can see I already have one here existing. This is for my other VPC. So I'm going to create a new subnet group. And I'm just going to call it RDS dash demo. And this subnet group is going to be created within my RDS demo VPC. That's the VPC that I just created. And now I can add subnets. So which subnets should be part of this subnet group I have two subnets in this VPC. I'm going to select both of them. And the effect of this is that now when I start creating RDS instances they're going to be automatically created in one of these subnets. So I've got multiple subnets that these instances can be created in. Those subnets are in different availability zones. That way if one of those availability zones fails we can fail over to the other availability zone. So now that I've established. My subnet group. I'm going to click create. And now we really have the necessary pieces that we need to go ahead and deploy our first RDS instance.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Create an RDS Instance

In this video, I'll demonstrate how to create an RDS instance. So here I am again in the AWS console. And once again I am in the Ohio region. I'm going to click on RDS and you can see here it says Database instances. I currently have zero. So I'm going to click on DB instances. And then I'm going to choose Create Database. And there's two options here I can do standard create. That's what I'm going to demonstrate here for you today. But I can also click on Easy Create. And what. Easy create is going to do. If I scroll down here it's going to automatically establish a bunch of default settings. It's going to put it in my default VPC which I do not want. It's going to put it in a specific subnet group. It's going to set up automated backups and set up a security group and all of that good stuff. So it's going to do a lot of stuff for me automatically. In this case though, I want to use Standard Create because I want to walk you through all of those settings. So the first thing that we're going to choose when we create an RDS instance is the database engine that we want to utilize. Do I want to do Aurora or Maria or Oracle or MySQL. And in this case I'm going to choose MySQL. MySQL is going to give us a nice low cost option. You can see some of the characteristics of MySQL and what is supported with it over here on the right. So we're going to choose MySQL. And then we're going to choose the addition of MySQL. And specifically which version of MySQL do we want to choose. I can also filter certain versions. So if there's features that I know I want to use, I can filter out versions that do not support those features. So I'm just going to choose this engine version that comes up by default here. And we're going to move on from there. Now I can choose do I want to use Production dev test or the free tier one of my after here. Is this database going to be for production. Because if it is production it should probably be distributed across multiple availability zones. If it's dev test we don't really need that. We can create this instance in a single availability zone. And so that's what we're going to do here. We're going to choose dev test. Now if I wanted to absolutely minimize my costs I could choose the free tier. And if I choose the free tier, there's only going to be certain types of RDS instances that are available. And as you can see here, it's very limited. It's just DB, T3, micro. But if I'm choosing dev test, that'll open up some additional instance types to me that I can choose from. So let's go with dev test here for our environment. And then I'm going to choose, do I want to do this across a single availability zone or create multiple instances across multiple availability zones? Or do I want to create a Multi-az database cluster? The big difference between Multi-az Rdd's and a Multi-az database cluster is with a cluster. Both instances are going to be readable. I'm just going to go with a single database instance for now. We don't need to worry about multi-az RDS just yet. For the database instance identifier, I'm just going to put in Rick demo RDS, and then we'll have a master username and password. I'm going to go with Lab master for the username. And I'm just going to set a password here. Lab 12345. That's going to be the password that I'm using here. I'll go ahead and put it in again here as well. Now we'll learn a little bit more about some of these other options later on. But if I want to I can use AWS Secrets Manager to store my credentials. That could be a really secure way for me to do this. But in this case, I'm not going to do that. I'm just going to create my own master password. We'll learn more about AWS Secrets Manager later on. Instance configuration. Which instance class do I want to use? Which family of instances do I want? Standard instances? Do I want memory optimized instances? Do I want burstable instances? And that really just depends on the use case here. Now in my use case I'm going to go with something relatively inexpensive, like AT3 micro instance or AT4G micro instance. That's actually a better fit for me here. So I'm going to do AT4G. As a rule of thumb, I tend to try to use the newest generation available. And if we take a quick look at the pricing page, you'll see why AT4G micro is 1.6 cents per hour, AT3 micro is going to give you poorer performance than AT4. And notice that it's also more expensive. So if you get the opportunity to go with the current generation, you should definitely consider doing that. So I'm going to go with AT4G here. If I want to see even older types of instances like t two, I can click this little slider here. But unless you have a good reason to do that, you probably shouldn't. The next option that we'll configure is the storage volumes for the RDS instance. And for most situations, GP3 is going to be the ideal choice. Now if I need more control. Over the performance of my storage. If I need to allocate how many read and write operations should be possible, then I'll use provisioned IOPs that's more scalable, and it gives me the ability to push more data to and from this database with a general purpose volume. Here I'm going to pick how big I want it to be. I'm just going to change this to 40GB. And depending on the amount of storage capacity that I identify here, that will affect the amount of reads and writes that I get to do against this volume. So let's, for example, just make the volume significantly larger. Well, in that case, the number of IOPs, the number of read and write operations, the amount of bandwidth that I get to storage changes accordingly. That's one of the things that happens with general purpose storage. If I go with a much smaller volume, those numbers go down. And so I'm just going to create a 40 gig volume here because I don't need a lot of space. And it's going to give me those provisioned IOPs and that storage throughput. And then I can choose whether I want my storage to be autoscaling. So if I enable storage autoscaling, I can specify what is the maximum size of this volume. Let's make it 200GB. Now as I start to run out of storage capacity on this RDS instance, more storage will be automatically added. And with any of these options here, if you're not really sure exactly what it does, the info button is a great option. You can just click on the info button, and it'll also give you the opportunity to click on a Learn More link, and it'll bring you through the specific elements of storage auto scaling. So like here you can see it's going to add storage increments of ten gigabytes. Or if if it's a larger volume it'll actually add it in 10% increments. But that's what storage auto scaling will do. It'll automatically add more storage capacity based on the amount of space that I have left. Let's go down to connectivity. Now I could set up a connection to an EC2 instance. What this is going to do is it's going to create a security group for me. If I already have, let's say like an EC2 web server. And I know that this EC2 web server is going to be communicating with this database, well, I could choose this option and I could identify that EC2 instance, and it'll automatically set up the required security groups so that EC2 can communicate with my database. I'm not going to do that here. We're going to do that manually later on. But right now I'm just going to choose not to connect to an EC2 compute resource. I'm not going to enable IP version six in this case. And I'm going to choose the VPC that I created in the previous demo. The demo VPC. And in the previous demo, I also created a subnet group that included two subnets from this demo VPC in different availability zones. Do I want my database to be publicly accessible? Meaning do I want to present this database on the internet? If I choose yes, here my database is going to get a public IP address. And that's going to allow systems from external physical networks or even the internet to connect to this RDS instance. I don't need that here. And for most instances you won't want that. So I'm going to choose no for public access. And then I now need to set up a security group. This is one thing that we haven't done yet. So I'm going to set up a new security group. If I have existing security groups, I can choose from those. But I'm going to create a new one. Think of the security group as a set of firewall rules that are going to be applied to this RDS instance. And so I'm just going to call this security group RDS demo. What's going to happen when I set this up is it's going to automatically create a security group that will allow access to this RDS instance on the required ports. We'll take a look at that security group when this process is finished. Just understand that the security group that you create here will be usable for other database instances as well. So if I start creating more MySQL RDS instances inside of this VPC, then I can use the security group for as many of them as I want. Now I get to choose which availability zone I want to place this RDS instance in. I'm going to choose US East two A. The idea here is I've got a database subnet group that has subnets in both of these availability zones. So what I want to think about here is where are my database clients. If my clients are in availability zone two A that's the availability zone I want to choose here. So later on when I create a database client I'll make sure I put it in US East two A just to keep my bill to a minimum and eliminate some transfer charges. We are not going to set up an RDS proxy at the moment. Our RDS proxy can be used to improve the availability and the scalability and security of RDS, and I'm not going to create that here. And then we've got database authentication. We're going to stick with password authentication. We could also enable password and IAM database authentication basically granting access to the database itself to certain IAM users. We can also support Kerberos authentication. I'm going to simply use password authentication in this case. And then I can choose if I want to enable enhanced monitoring. So enhanced monitoring this is going to work with CloudWatch. And with enhanced monitoring this is billable. So if I enable this feature, we're going to have the ability to choose how frequently we want our monitoring tool to look at this RDS instance. I'm going to uncheck that option here because in my situation it's not really important to have enhanced monitoring enabled. And then finally let's set up a few options under additional configuration. I'm just going to make my initial database name Rick Demo. I'm going to use the default parameter group and the default option group. But what I really want to look at here is my automated backups. So there's going to be an automated backup that gets taken of this RDS instance. How long do I want those automated backups to be kept for. I'm going to say one day. If I say zero days, then automated backups will be disabled. But I'm going to go with one here. I don't need to hang on to these for a long time, and I can choose a backup window. When are these backups going to occur? We're going to learn more about this later, but understand that when these backups are taken, there is going to be potentially a performance impact. So not necessarily an outage but potentially a performance impact depending on what we're doing with Multi-az. So I'm just going to leave this as is. But just understand. Yeah, you could set a specific time of day where you want those backups taken. I'm going to leave this option enabled copy tags to snapshots. That means if my RDS instance has a specific tag, that tag is also going to be applied to the snapshots. That can make it much easier for me to keep things organized. Do I want the backups of this RDS instance to be automatically replicated to another AWS region? I'm going to leave that option unchecked as well, but if I want to keep backups of my RDS instance in a separate AWS region, I can enable that here. I'm going to leave encryption enabled with the default options. And then I'm going to choose my maintenance window for minor version upgrades for any other maintenance work that AWS is doing. To my RDS instance, I can decide when those maintenance activities are going to occur. And then finally I can enable deletion protection. So if I check this box, if somebody goes into the AWS console and tries to delete this RDS instance, they won't be able to do that. They're going to have to disable this option before they can delete this RDS instance. So it protects the database from being deleted accidentally. I'm going to go ahead and enable that option here. And I'm going to click Create Database. And so now the RDS instance is being created I'm going to just close this. And the last thing that I want to take a look at here in this demo is let's go to our VPC dashboard. Let's go to security groups. And I want to take a quick look at the security group that was created for me here. So remember I created a security group name called RDS demo. This was the security group that I created during my instance configuration. When I was setting up the RDS instance. And what it did was it created some inbound rules and outbound rules. And what this security group rule states is that we're going to allow traffic inbound on port 3306 to this RDS instance. And what I could also do is I could edit these rules and I could specify a particular source. So if I know the EC2 instance that's going to be communicating with this RDS instance, I would include that IP address here in the list of allowed sources. And then there's also going to be outbound rules for this. But basically the outbound rules are pretty simple. It's going to allow all traffic on all ports to all destinations. So the security group is basically allowing everything out, and it's only allowing legitimate traffic on the appropriate port in. And so when we create our database client, one of the things we're going to have to do is modify the security group to allow that database client to communicate with this RDS instance.

---

### Lecture: Demo  View an RDS Instance Configuration and Details

In our last video, we created our first RDS instance. Now let's take a look at that instance and look at some of the options that we have to view and modify that instance. So here I am in the AWS console. I'm going to go to RDS and under RDS we're going to see database instances. I'm going to click on that link. Here's the database instance that I created in the last demo. It's still in the process of being fully created. A backup of it is being created right now. But let's just click on Ric Demo here and take a look. Here we can see all of the connectivity and security options. I can see which availability zone it's in. I can see which VPC it's in. I can see the security groups that it is associated with and which port it's going to be accessible through. And I can see if there's any EC2 instances that are connected to it here. I can also look at the monitoring tab and look at CloudWatch metrics and a nice little dashboard here. Now this instance was just created. So there's not a whole lot of information there. But if I want to look at performance charts and stuff like that I would go to monitoring. If I go to configuration you can see the configuration parameters of this RDS instance are all listed here. Things like which type of volume was it created? With? Which instance class is it? I can see the maintenance and backups here, and there's no maintenance pending right now. I can see that automated backups are enabled, and I can see that the first automated backup is already underway. And that should be created in a little while here. And then finally I can see tags. Now, I haven't added any tags to this RDS instance, but I really should do that. Using tags is one of the underrated things to do here in the AWS console. Tags give me a great way to keep things organized. So for example, I could tag this and I could say okay, which environment is this? Is it production? Is it development. Is it testing? I could tag based on the cost center. Maybe this is for the finance team or whatever. The database is going to be charged back to them. I could tag it. For which project or which application is this thing a part of? I'll just say the project is lending or the application is lending. And basically I'm just categorizing this RDS instance. Now, it might not seem that important, but imagine you have hundreds or thousands of instances. Imagine you have S3 buckets and EC2 instances and Lambda functions, and you've got this AWS account that is just full of stuff, full of resources that you've created. Wouldn't it be nice if I could generate a report on all of the spending for the Finance Cost Center? Wouldn't it be great if I could see all of the AWS resources associated with a particular project or application? So tags are extremely powerful in the ability to report and the ability to automate. And so even if you don't have very much stuff in your AWS account, I strongly suggest figuring out a good structure for tags, identifying it, making sure you have it well thought out, and then using it right off the bat. Because once you've got a whole bunch of resources in here, getting everything tagged appropriately becomes a much bigger job. If you just do it right from the beginning and tag things appropriately from the beginning, that opens up a lot more possibilities to you down the road. So anyways, that's our first database instance. That's the RDS instance that we're going to be working with moving forward. And from here we'll move on to more tasks. We'll start setting up backups and snapshots. We'll set up a database client. We'll continue to kind of play with this database instance throughout the remainder of this course.

---

### Lecture: RDS Backups and Snapshots

In this video, we'll learn how backups and snapshots work. We're going to explore both automated backups and manual snapshots. And the automated backups are going to occur every single day. This is done by taking a storage volume snapshot of your RDS instance, and in the background it's stored in S3. The backup is taken during the backup window that you specify, and you get free backup storage included with your database. Now you only get enough storage space that is equal to the size of your database. So if you store more than one backup, you're going to start to incur costs for the storage of those backups. So just understand that as you choose your retention policy, longer retention policies are going to result in increased cost. But yeah, you can specify the retention policies that you want, and you'll be able to restore your database to any point in time during that retention policy. So the default retention policy is it will keep seven daily backups one week worth of backups. You can set the retention policy to a maximum of 35 days, and you'll be able to restore to any point in time over the course of those 35 days. When you delete an RDS instance, the automated backups are also deleted. Once they're deleted, they cannot be recovered. Manual snapshots are still retained, but you'll see this process when we demonstrate how to delete an RDS instance. Automated backups run during the backup window that you've specified, and as the backup is being taken, there is going to be a brief IO suspension. Now that's only the case if we are not doing a multi-az RDS deployment. We haven't learned about those yet, but with Multi-az, you're going to have a primary instance and a standby. In that case, the backup is taken from the standby. So there's no impact on the performance of the primary. If you choose to set the retention policy to zero, that is going to disable automated backups. If you then choose to change that later on from 0 to 1 or to some other retention policy, then at that point a backup is going to be taken at that exact moment. If you choose to disable automated backups, all of your automated backups will be deleted and cannot be recovered. But one of the key features of the automated backups is it gives you point in time recovery. It gives you the ability to recover to any point in time during the retention period of those backups, down to the second, so you can pick the time that you want to restore from if you need to restore from an automated backup. Manual snapshots are different. You can back up your database instance manually at any time by taking a full database snapshot. This is a full backup. It is not incremental, meaning every time you do this, it's going to create a complete copy of your database instance. It's going to take a snapshot of the storage volume. It doesn't just backup individual databases. It backs up every single database that's stored with that instance. And these manual snapshots are kept until you explicitly delete them. They're not deleted when you terminate an instance. Now, much like the automated backups, taking a manual snapshot causes a brief IO suspension usually lasts no more than a few minutes. And again, if you've enabled multi-az RDS, the snapshot is taken from the standby and therefore there's no impact on IO. Any time you restore, whether it's from a manual snapshot or an automated backup, it doesn't matter. Any restore is always done to a new RDS instance. And because these manual snapshots are a point in time picture, because it's a full backup at the moment that you take that snapshot, it does not support point in time recovery. You can't choose the minute or the second that you want to restore to. You're just restoring to whenever that snapshot was taken.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Restore RDS From Backup

In this video, I'll demonstrate how to restore an RDS instance from a backup. I'll also show you how to take a manual snapshot of an instance. A couple key things to keep in mind as we go through this process. Any time we restore RDS from a snapshot or an automated backup, the restore is done to a new RDS instance. All of the databases within that instance are going to be restored, so we're not targeting a specific database. We can have multiple databases on the same RDS instance. This is going to restore all of them. When it creates the new cluster, it'll get a new security group and the default parameter group. I know we really haven't talked about parameter groups yet, but just think of those as settings for the database engine itself. We can use point in time recovery if we're restoring from an automated backup, and that's useful if we want to restore to a specific point in time. If we are restoring from an automated backup, there can be up to five minutes of data loss, because the frequency with which those automated backups are carried out is about once every five minutes. So here I am in the AWS console. I'm going to go to RDS and I'm going to go to database instances. Here's the database instance that we've been working with prior to now. I can go to that database instance. And there's a few options that I can take now here under maintenance and backups, you can see that I've got one automated backup that has already been taken. I'm also going to take a manual snapshot of this instance. So I'll just click on Take Snapshot. I'm going to call the snapshot Ric demo snapshot. And then I'll just click Take snapshot. And so that's how I can go about the process of taking a snapshot on demand whenever I want. You can see here the snapshot is still in the process of creating. This is going to take a little while for this to be completely finished. So I'm going to go back to RDS Mac to my database instance here one more time. And we can see the status of the instance it is currently backing up. And you can see the snapshot is being created right now. So let's go back over here to the maintenance and backups area for this instance. And you can see I've got my snapshot which is being created. And I've also got my automated backup which was taken earlier today. So here I've checked my automated backup. I'm just going to click on restore. And we have to restore to a new instance. Now just like the instance that I have the backup of, I'm going to restore to a single DB instance. I'm not restoring to a multi-az database instance, but you might notice that a lot of the options here are going to look similar to the options that we used when we created the RDS instance. That's because when we restore, we're creating a new instance based on that backup. So if I wanted to restore and create a Multi-az RDS instance, I could do that. I'm just going to go with a single database instance and I'm going to call it Ric Demo RDS restore. Now again, just like when we create an RDS instance, we can choose the instance type. And I'm going to choose the exact same instance type that I did when I created the instance. I'm going to go with AT4G micro instance, but I could choose a different instance type here if I wanted to. I'm also going to choose the type of storage volume. I chose GP3 last time. I gave it 40 gigs of storage capacity last time, so I'm going to stick with that. And then we can see the connectivity options. So which VPC do I want to restore this instance to. And you'll notice that it's populating the VPC that I created. And the subnet group that I created. So it's going to restore to that same VPC that same subnet group. It's automatically choosing to disable public access. And then I can choose which security group do I want to use for this new restored RDS instance? I'm going to choose RDS demo because that's the security group that I created for the RDS instance. And I'm going to choose which availability zone I want this new instance created in. Again, I'm just sticking with the same options that I had for the database instance before. I'm choosing the US East two a availability zone. I'm going to continue to use password authentication, and it's automatically going to be encrypted because the automated snapshot was taken from an instance that was encrypted. Now let's expand additional configuration option here. And notice that when I restore it's going with the default parameter and the default option group rephrase. And notice that when we restore, it's choosing the default database parameter group and the default option group. Now notice I have some parameter groups and option groups that I have created here. I know we haven't really talked about those yet, so I'm going to stick with the default options here. But I just want to mention that later on in this course we're going to talk about parameter groups and option groups and what those mean. And understand that any time you restore by default, it's going to go with the default parameter group. So I can have a bunch of settings that are specific to my database engine in a parameter group. And if I have those settings laid out, I may want to choose one of my own parameter groups and one of my own option groups as well. And so for example there's options in the option group like Oracle or SQL server data encryption or memcached support. If I want to use those options here I'll have to choose the appropriate option and parameter groups. If I have tags, I want to copy those tags to the snapshots. Again, this is the same process that I used when I created the RDS instance to begin with. And then I can choose my maintenance and deletion protection options. I'm just going to stick with the same settings that I went with before, and I'm going to click Restore Database instance. And so what's essentially happening now is a new RDS instance is being created based on that automated backup that I restored from. So it's going to take some time for this database instance to be completely created. But I just want to take a moment to mention here. Let's look at the original database instance. Now I'm assuming if we're restoring something has gone wrong with this, maybe it's not even there anymore. Maybe it got deleted by somebody and I had to restore from backup. Well, here's the thing. The end point. This is what my clients are going to point to. There is a specific end point address that is associated with this database instance. And you can see here it starts with Rick Demo RDS. Well, if I look at my new instance that is being created based upon the restore, that's going to have a different endpoint. Once it comes up and it's ready to go, it's going to have its own unique address that the clients will need to communicate with. So if I have clients that are currently pointed towards the end point of my original database, and now let's assume that that is gone or it's corrupted or there's something wrong with it, I'm going to have to now point my database clients to the end point address of this new RDS instance that's being created based on my backup.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Copy and Share RDS Snapshots

In this video, we'll learn how to copy and share snapshots, and so you can copy either manual snapshots or automated backups. In the demo we're about to perform, we will share an automated backup. And you can also copy these to different regions or to different AWS accounts. You can also encrypt a copy of an unencrypted snapshot. So if you have an RDS instance that is currently not encrypted, when you take a snapshot of it, the snapshot will also be unencrypted. But if I want to now encrypt that snapshot, I can do so when I copy the snapshot. We can also copy snapshots to other AWS accounts, but before we can do that, we'll have to share those snapshots. So here I am in the AWS console. I'm at RDS and I'm going to go to database instances. And I've got two instances currently running. I've got one that I created and one that I restored from a snapshot. So I'm going to go to the RDS instance that I've created, and I'm going to go to maintenance and backups. And you can see here I've got a manual snapshot that I took. And I've also got two automated backups that have occurred. So I'm just going to pick my first automated backup and just click on the link for it. And once I get into the backup itself, I can go to actions and I can go to Copy snapshot. Now you'll notice the option to share this snapshot is currently grayed out. That's because you can't just share an automated backup. And if I just click on the snapshots link here, you can see I do have a manual snapshot of this instance. If I click on that you'll notice that the share option is available. So that's one of the key differences between an automated backup versus a manual snapshot is I cannot share an automated backup. So we can do that if we copy the automated backup. So let's go back to RDS back to our database instance. One more time. Back to maintenance and backups. Let's find one of these automated snapshots. I'm going to pick my first one again. And I'm going to go to actions. And I'm going to choose copy snapshot. Now the snapshot currently exists in the Ohio region, but if I want to, I can copy it to a different region. So this is useful for a number of things. Number one, I may just want to copy this snapshot to another region so that I have a copy of the database in a different region in case I need to restore it to that region. But what if I wanted to move my RDS instance to a different region? Well, I could just take a snapshot of it, copy it to that other region, and then I could restore in that other region to create a new RDS instance with all of the data of the original RDS instance. So I'm going to choose to copy this snapshot to the Oregon region. I'll give it a name. I'm just going to call it Rick demo copy snap. I can choose the option group that I'm going to use, and I'm just going to leave that at the default. And I am going to copy my tags over as well. Now this snapshot is currently encrypted, so there's no option here for me to enable encryption because the RDS instance itself was already encrypted. So I'm just going to leave that option as is because I can't change it. And I'll click copy snapshot. And now it's going to take a little bit of time, but it's going to copy this snapshot to the Oregon region. So let's go ahead and switch over to the Oregon region. And here you can see the snapshot that's been copied over. It's called Rick demo copy snap. And it's in the process of being created. It's going to take a little while for this process to finish. So I'm just going to pause my recording and allow that copy to complete. Okay, so the process of copying my Ric demo snapshot to the Oregon region is now complete. So now I have a copy of this snapshot in the other region. Now if I wanted to, I could click on this snapshot and I could restore. And like I said, this is a great way to move an RDS instance from one region to another. I just take a snapshot of the RDS instance, copy it over, and restore to that other region. I'll just have to make sure that my clients are configured properly to point to this new RDS instance. We already saw how to copy a snapshot, and we can also share a snapshot. So I'm going to click on Share Snapshot. And now I can specifically choose an AWS account ID. And so here you can see I've added an identifier of a different AWS account here. I'm just going to click on add. And then I'm going to choose save. And so now I have shared this snapshot with another AWS account. Now there's one thing I want to mention before we move on. This is an encrypted snapshot. So when I went to share this snapshot notice that the snapshot visibility was set to private. That was because this is an encrypted snapshot. If the snapshot was unencrypted, I could choose public. And that would permit all AWS accounts to restore a database from this snapshot. So if I'm choosing public, I just need to be careful that I'm not sharing information that shouldn't be shared. Essentially. Anyhow, so now that I've shared this snapshot, I've shared it as private and I've inputted the AWS account number in here. Now I can go into the other AWS account and here I am in my other account I'm going to go to AWS, I'm going to go to snapshots and I'm going to go to shared with me. And here you can see this snapshot that has been shared with this account. And so now I could do things like under actions I could copy the snapshot. I can migrate the snapshot. I could delete the snapshot. Notice I do not have the ability to restore this snapshot. That's because this destination account does not have access to the encryption key that was used to encrypt this snapshot. So they can do things like copy the encrypted snapshot or delete it or migrate it, but they can't actually restore from it because they can't access any of the data that is within that snapshot. Now, I'm not going to go through the process of actually sharing the necessary KMS key, but on your screen you'll see a URL that will take you to the AWS documentation. And this will walk you through the process of of sharing an encrypted snapshot. There is a KMS key that was used to encrypt the snapshot, and in order to allow access to that KMS key, you actually have to set up the necessary permissions in IAM. And there are some policies shown here that will walk you through that process. So that's a little bit beyond the scope of what we want to do here. But just understand that yeah, if you're sharing with a different AWS account, you're going to have to not only share the encrypted snapshot, but make sure that that other AWS account has access to the encryption key so that it can unencrypt the data within that snapshot.

---

### Lecture: RDS Encryption in Transit

In this video, we'll learn about network security for RDS instances. And the number one topic that we want to talk about here is how to utilize security groups. So let's start with a basic scenario that we've already talked about a few times. Maybe I've got a public facing web application. So I'm going to have some kind of web server. And the web server uses a database on the back end. The database should not be accessible from the internet. And so we're going to configure the necessary security to make sure that that database is protected. So we'll start with our VPC. Our instances are always launched within a VPC. And then within a VPC I'm going to create a subnet group. Now this instance should not be publicly accessible. Therefore I am going to place it in a private subnet. This is a subnet that does not have a route to the internet gateway. It does not give out public IPS and therefore it is not accessible from the internet. And I'm also going to have a public subnet in this scenario. That's where my web server is going to sit. So I'll put the web server itself inside of a public subnet. That public subnet will have a route to the internet gateway. And also the EC2 instance that is going to be my web server is going to have a public IP. And so this web server is going to be accepting incoming connections from the internet. Traffic's going to flow through my internet gateway, and it's going to arrive at this EC2 instance that's acting as a web server. And that's where the legitimate requests to my database should be coming from. The EC2 instance needs to be able to connect to this database across the appropriate ports. And so I want to lock down the database and ensure that only the connections from this specific EC2 instance are allowed to come into this RDS instance. And I can do that using a security group. A security group is a stateful firewall. And the security group is applied directly to this RDS instance. So I could create one security group and potentially apply it to many different instances. But that's one of the key characteristics of a security group. You can pick and choose on every single RDS instance which security group you want to use. So the security group will have rules within it determining, hey, what source IP can the traffic come from? And maybe I'll say the source has to be this EC2 instance. Or maybe this EC2 instance is in a security group itself, and I'll allow incoming connections from that security group. So I'll choose the source and I'll also choose the port. And so I'm going to have a specific port that I'm going to open up for this. And if we quickly switch back to the AWS console, you may remember that when I created my RDS instance, I also created a security group. Let's take a quick look at what that security group looks like for inbound traffic. It is allowing connections on a specific port, so it's not just going to allow all the ports in. It's going to allow the ports that should specifically be used to establish a connection to this database engine. Now, in addition to the security group, I can also configure a network access control list or a network ACL. The network ACL is associated with the entire subnet. So when I create my private subnet I'm going to associate it with a network access control list. The network access control list is kind of similar to a security group. There's a few major differences though. The number one difference is that it is not a stateful firewall. But the most important difference for this case is when I create a network ACL and I associate it with a subnet, the rules of the network ACL are applied to all traffic coming in and out of that subnet. So this gives me some level of defense in depth. So let's say for example, that somebody compromises this EC2 instance and attempts to establish a connection to this RDS instance. Well, if it's not on the appropriate source IPS or the appropriate ports, I could block it with the network ACL. But let's assume that the network ACL has been misconfigured or just isn't set up right. Well, even if the traffic gets through the network ACL, I've still got a set of security group rules controlling the traffic that's allowed to this specific RDS instance. And what you'll see many organizations will do is they'll have one team that's in charge of controlling the network ACL rules, and they'll have a separate team that's in charge of controlling the security group rules. And that way, even if one team or one individual kind of drops the ball here, there's still a good chance that the RDS instance will be appropriately protected. So just bear that in mind. The big difference between a security group and a network ACL. Security groups are applied individually to instances like RDS instances or EC2 instances versus a network. ACL is applied to an entire subnet, and it controls all traffic going in and out of the entire subnet. I can also enforce SSL connections on my database. This ensures that all of the data transmitted between the database client and the database server is secure, and that makes it much more difficult for attackers to intercept and read the data. This is referred to as encryption in transit. It's encrypting the traffic that's flowing over my network. It also ensures that the client that's connecting to the database is actually an authentic server, and it's not a man in the middle attack. So SSL will verify the identity of the database client, and it'll prevent unauthorized clients from eavesdropping on our communications. This makes it much harder for a man in the middle attacker to intercept and tamper with sensitive information as it travels between your application and the database. So essentially, just to give you a quick idea, here's what a man in the middle attack would look like. I've got my database server here and I've got my legitimate client here. Well, a man in the middle attack will basically will a man in the middle attack will basically take over the identity of one of my systems. So the client will be sending traffic to the man in the middle instead of the database. The man in the middle will then be viewing and intercepting whatever data it wants there before it passes it on to the database, allowing the man in the middle attack to go undetected. But if this traffic is encrypted, the man in the middle is not going to be able to read any of the contents of it. So that's a good idea to enforce encrypted traffic between your clients and your database. We will configure this using a parameter group setting. And so I've mentioned parameter groups a couple of times now. The basic idea is that a parameter group is a bunch of settings for the database engine itself. So we can use a parameter group setting to set up our database engine to only accept encrypted communications. So let's take a look at a little diagram here. Here we've got our database server and our client. And the way that the encryption in transit process works is that when the client wants to connect to the database, it initiates a handshake. And during this handshake, the database and the client agree on a way to communicate securely. Once they agree on how to talk securely to each other, all of the data that they send back and forth is basically all scrambled up so that even if someone intercepts these messages, they can't understand what's inside because the contents of that communication are all jumbled up. It also makes sure that the client and the database can prove that they actually are who they say they are. So kind of imagine it like this. My EC2 instance has like an ID card, and it has to show that ID card to the database in order to establish this encrypted session. This prevents imposters and a man in the middle type attacks from connecting to the database, or from pretending to be the client or the database because they don't have this little ID card. And when the session is coming to a close, when they're done communicating, the two entities, the RDS instance and the EC2 instance, basically say goodbye to each other. They close the connection and the process of that communication is all encrypted as well. So enforcing encryption in transit is a great way to secure all of the traffic between the client and the RDS instance.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Delete an RDS Instance

In this brief video, I'm going to show you how to delete an RDS instance. And so if you're following along at home, one of the things you're going to want to make sure that you're doing is cleaning up as you go. And I restored an RDS instance from backup. So I now have two instances here that are running. I'm going to get rid of one of those because I don't want to be billed for it. So I'm going to choose my Ric demo, RDS restore, and then I'm going to go to actions and I'm going to choose delete. Now you can see I've enabled the deletion protection on this RDS instance. So this is going to prevent somebody from accidentally deleting the RDS instance. So in order to disable that I'll go to modify. And under modify we'll scroll all the way to the bottom. And I'm going to now disable deletion protection and hit continue. And you can choose whether to apply it right now or during the next scheduled maintenance window. I'm going to apply it right now. And I'm just going to now refresh here one more time and go to actions and delete this RDS instance. Now there's a few options when you delete it. By default it's going to try to create a final snapshot just to back up all of the contents of this database. I don't want that. So I'm going to uncheck that. Do I want to retain the automated backups. I don't want that either. So I'm just going to uncheck that as well. Notice it's not giving you an option to delete the manual snapshots. Those are kept either way. So I have to go in and actually delete those manual snapshots if I want to get rid of them. And then I'm just going to acknowledge that yes, once I delete this everything is going to be gone. All of my snapshots and point in time recovery will no longer be available. I'm going to go ahead and click on delete here. And now the database is going to be deleted. So it's a good idea as you follow along with these demos or as you work with an AWS account. Real life to just get in the habit of cleaning up after yourself if there's something you no longer need. Don't wait till later. Go ahead and get rid of it right away, because that's how your AWS bill tends to get out of control is leaving things hanging around that you don't really need anymore.

---

### Lecture: Authenticating to RDS with Credentials, IAM, and Secrets Manager

In this video, we'll learn about some of the different ways that we can authenticate to an RDS database. And first off, let's talk about RDS and Identity Access Management or Im. IAM can be used to control permissions. So who's allowed to launch RDS instances or delete instances or make configuration changes to my RDS instances? I'm going to control all of that with IAM, and I'm typically going to strive to grant the least privilege to users, groups, and roles. Basically meaning I am going to grant my IAM users and groups and roles the absolute minimum set of permissions that they require in order to accomplish whatever I want to allow them to accomplish. That's always a good idea with IAM, is to just grant the absolute minimum permission set that you possibly can. We can also use policy conditions to restrict access. So for example, I could create IAM policies that are going to allow people to delete instances. But if I'm creating a policy that can do things like that, what I may want to do is specify, hey, which source IP addresses are allowed to do this? Or do I want to require users to use multifactor authentication in order to delete databases? Conditions allow me to set up additional restraints to further lock down those sorts of privileges. So that's one piece of IAM. I can use IAM to control who can do what to the instances themselves, who can make modifications to the RDS instance, who can take a snapshot, all of that kind of stuff I can do with IAM. In addition to that, I can also use IAM to to authenticate to the database engine itself. And so with this authentication method, you don't actually need a password in your client to connect to the database instance. Instead, you'll use an authentication token that is generated by an RDS request to IAM. And the process to do this involves activating IAM database authentication on the RDS instance itself. I'll have to set up the RDS instance to tell the database engine to allow IAM authentication. Then I'll create a database user account that uses an AWS authentication token. And I'll add an IAM policy that maps that database user to the IAM role. So let's draw a little diagram here to illustrate how this process works. Step one I'll create an IAM role, and the IAM role is going to have the necessary permissions to actually look inside of that database. So think of the IAM role as basically a permission. If I assign this role to an EC2 instance, I am granting that EC2 instance permissions to authenticate to this database. And the role is used by the EC2 instance to get an authentication token from the AWS service. So once that authentication token is granted it's basically like an identifier. It's like an ID card that the EC2 instance can present to the RDS instance to say, hey, look, I've been authenticated. Allow me to access this database. And that authentication token will be associated with a user. So the database instance itself. I have to have a user created on the RDS instance. And this user has to be associated with an AWS authentication token. So once the EC2 instance has this role it now has the ability to authenticate to RDS. When it attempts to authenticate, it gets this token and it passes the token along to RDS. The token is associated with a specific RDS user that grants them the necessary permissions, and the token lasts 15 minutes. So IAM is one of the ways that we can authenticate to an RDS database. Another option is to use AWS secrets Manager. This is a good way for us to rotate database credentials to regularly change the username and password that is used to access the database itself. So the database client can't just start reading and writing to and from the database. It has to authenticate first. And I could just build those database credentials right into the database client. But that becomes really challenging because now if I want to change those credentials, I have to go to all of my database clients and update them. Instead of doing that, I could use Secrets Manager. So I could go to Secrets Manager and I could store a new secret. And that secret will be credentials for an RDS database. So what I'm doing is I'm essentially storing my username and password inside of this Secrets Manager service. And then I'll choose the RDS database that I want to manage the credentials for. And I'll set a rotation schedule. The rotation schedule is going to use a Lambda function. Basically it's going to execute some code. And that code is going to regularly change those database credentials so that if those credentials are exposed or compromised somehow, they'll be changed regularly. And so the credentials live Inside Secrets Manager and the credentials are constantly being changed inside Secrets Manager so that they are regularly rotated. That gives us additional security. And the final step is my database clients. The database client must have permission to retrieve the username and password from Secrets Manager, and then use that to authenticate to the Redis instance. And so I'll have to give this EC2 instance an IAM role that allows it to retrieve the credentials from Secrets Manager and use those to authenticate to RDS. And so tomorrow those credentials might change Lambda might rotate them. But that's fine because the database client will request the credentials from Secrets Manager. It'll get the new updated credentials, and it'll pass those along to RDS to authenticate to the database engine.

---

### Lecture: RDS Parameter Groups

In this video, we'll learn how we can use parameter groups to configure settings on our database engines. So let's start out by just understanding RDS is a managed service. You do not have direct access to the operating system of your RDS instance. You can't get shell access. You can't make configuration changes that way. But you may want to perform certain database configuration tasks that would normally require access to the operating system. So for example, MySQL has a my.cnf file that you can use to modify the configuration of the MySQL database engine. And using that configuration file you could do things like set the time zone, you could enforce encryption in transit. You can set. Different configuration options on the database engine itself. However, within RDS you don't have access to that configuration file. So instead we will use a parameter group to configure those sorts of settings. Every instance comes with a default parameter group. You can create a new parameter group and customize it with whatever settings you want, and you may have certain settings that you want to apply to multiple instances. Well, that's fine. When you create a parameter group, it can be applied to many instances. So for example, one of the settings that we might want to configure with a parameter group is to enforce SSL connections. This ensures that data that's transmitted between our client and our database is more secure, because all that traffic will be encrypted. It also ensures that the client that's connecting is an authentication server, and that it's not a man in the middle attack. So this is one of those security settings that we probably want to configure. And using a parameter group is a great way to do that. And in a few lessons we'll take a look at a demo of how to set up these parameter group settings.

---

### Lecture: RDS Option Groups

In this video, we'll learn about option groups, and option groups is essentially a bundle of features or settings that you can apply to your RDS instance. These are options that are not included in the parameter group. Option groups are used for enabling and disabling specific database engine options like. Here's a good example. Maybe I want to create a memory cache and use a cache to improve the performance of my database. That's something that I would configure in an option group. Option groups are local to a specific region and local to the VPC that I create them in. Now this is important. If I ever need to restore the RDS instance to a different region. The option group that I used in the source region is not going to be available there. So the option group is like selecting a package of high level features for the RDS instance. Parameter groups are more like making detailed database specific configuration adjustments, but we really need both of them to make sure that we're tailoring the RDS database to meet the application's needs.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Parameter and Option Groups

In this video, I'll demonstrate how to configure parameter groups for an RDS instance. And so here we are at the AWS console. I'm going to go to RDS and notice that we're still working in the same region we've been working in all along Ohio. And so I'm going to go to my database instances, and I'll just go to my database that I've created. And I'm going to click on the name of the database here. And under configuration we're going to find here's the option group. But what I want to focus on right now is the parameter group. So here's the parameter group that's associated with this instance. And this is the default parameter group. So I don't have any ability to modify or make changes to this parameter group. And so what I want to do is I want to create a new parameter group. So I'm going to click on parameter groups here. And you can see there's one that I've already created. I'm going to create another new one. And as a matter of fact I'm just going to take a moment to delete this existing parameter group so that there's no confusion. I'll click on Create Parameter group here. And the first option that I'm going to select is going to be the parameter group family. Now in this case we're dealing with a MySQL database. So I'm going to find MySQL 8.0. And that's going to be the database parameter group family. We just choose whatever matches our database engine here. And I'll fill in a group name and a description here. And then I'll click create. All right. So here's the parameter group that I've created I'm going to click on this parameter group. And I'm going to go to edit. And the first parameter that I'm going to modify is the time zone. So here you can see all of these different time zones that are available. I'm going to check the little box next to this. And this will give me the ability to change this parameter. And I'm going to put in a parameter here for us eastern. That's going to be the time zone that I select. And so now I can just save the changes here. And that's some of the changes that I can make to my database instance. But as you can see there's a massive number of database configuration options that I can choose from here. Now I'm not going to go through all of these obviously. I'm just going to modify the time zone. That's going to be the only parameter that I'm going to change here. And so now that I've saved this new parameter group, I'm going to go back to RDS. I'm going to find my database instance and I'm going to click on modify. And I'm going to associate this new parameter group with this database. And so we'll just scroll down here until we get to database options under Database Parameter group I can now select the new parameter group and apply those configuration changes to this database. So now I've associated a different parameter group with this database. I'm going to stick with the same option group, but we'll modify that in just a moment. I'll click on continue here. And I'm going to apply these changes immediately. I'm not going to wait for the maintenance window. Now in addition to that we can modify option groups. So again I'm going to click on my database instance here. And under configuration I'll scroll down until I find the option group. And once again just like the parameter group we're currently using the default option group which we do not have the ability to modify. So I'll click on Option Groups up here. And I'm going to create a new group. As a matter of fact you can see there's one that I've already created. Again I'm just going to delete that. So there's no confusion here. I'm going to create a new group. I'll just give it a name and a description. And again I'll choose my database engine that I'm going to use here. In this case we're choosing MySQL. And it's going to be version eight. And then I'll click create. So now I've created a new option group. I'm going to click on the name of this new option group. And if we scroll down here you can see there's currently zero options configured. So I'm going to click add option. And the option that I'm going to configure here is memcached. So maybe I want to create a memory cache to improve the performance of this database instance. And I can also associate a VPC or security group for which this option is enabled. I'm just going to stick with the default. And I've got option settings that I can use to modify some of the options for this option setting. I'm just going to leave these all at the defaults and click add option. And so now I've created a new option group. And we can go back to our RDS instance. We can go to database instances here. And on my database I'm just going to select the little button to the left of it. I can go to modify. And very similar to the way that we changed the parameter group. We can also change the option group as well. So that's how you would modify the parameter groups and option groups of an RDS instance. Now the last thing I'm going to do, which I like to stay in the habit of doing, is delete the parameter groups and option groups that I've created. Now, if I go to delete this parameter group right now, this parameter group is in use by a database instance. So it's not going to let me do that. So in order to delete these I need to make sure that they're not associated with any RDS instances.

---

### Lecture: RDS Proxy

In this video, we'll explore the RDS proxy feature that's available. And the idea here with the RDS proxy is we are interested in improving certain aspects of our database. The first improvement that we can make using the RDS proxy is scalability. So when we have many users or many applications that try to access the database, the database can become slow or overloaded. Our RDS proxy helps manage the incoming connections to ensure that the database doesn't get overwhelmed. So it's basically handling and managing all of those incoming connections. It also provides a security benefit as well. By using RDS proxy, we limit the exposure of our database instance. This is especially important if our database is going to be publicly accessible on the internet. RDS proxy acts as a barrier between the applications and the database itself. Now, I know we already mentioned database scalability, but the other thing that RDS proxy can do to further enhance scalability is it can distribute database connections across multiple database instances. And this means that even if one database server fails, your application can continue to work without interruption. RDS proxy also provides query caching. So queries are basically questions that are being asked of the database. And if we have common queries that occur over and over again, we can store those in a memory cache. And it's kind of like having a memory of previous orders or previous tasks or previous problems that you've had to solve. If you've already solved those problems, you don't have to solve them again. And that's what the RDS proxy essentially does. When it comes to caching, our RDS proxy is a managed, serverless, highly available solution. So let's build out a little diagram here and explore a little bit more of how RDS proxy works. Let's start with an example application. Now in this case we're doing serverless. So we've got a Lambda function. And we may have many instances of this lambda function running simultaneously. And so if I have a lot of users using this application, they may have many open connections to the database server. And those connections may be frequently opened and frequently closed. And so it's up to the RDS instance to manage all of these connections. Now it's not just handling the queries or all of the database options, but all of the incoming connections themselves. And so if we insert our proxy in the middle. This can be enabled for most applications without any change to the code of the application or the way the application works. RDS proxy is going to maintain a pool of established connections to your RDS instance. And if there's connections that are up and running that are infrequently used, it will share those across multiple instances of the application. So it can actually cut down on the number of connections. And if a failure occurs, our RDS proxy can route requests to a new database instance. The failover times for Aurora and for RDS databases can be reduced by up to 66% by using RDS proxy. RDS proxy can also allow database authentication. We can control access using AWS Secrets Manager and AWS IAM. The goal here is to eliminate the need to hardcode our database credentials into the application itself.

---

### Lecture: Multi-AZ RDS

In this video, we'll learn about multi-az. RDS and how it can be used to improve the availability of our RDS databases. So the goal here is to create RDS instances that are highly available by creating a secondary instance in an additional availability zone. RDS instances are going to run in highly available data center facilities in different areas of the world. These different areas of the world are called regions. So in most of our demos here, we've been using the Ohio region. Now within that region and within every other region, there are multiple availability zones. Each of these availability zones are independent of each other. You can basically think of them as data centers or sets of data centers within a region. So when we enable Multi-az RDS, what's going to happen is we're going to have a primary database instance in one availability zone. And just kind of think of it as running in one data center. And then we'll have a standby RDS instance in a different availability zone. So just think of that as running in a different physical data center. All of the changes that occur on the primary are replicated to the standby instance using synchronous replication. That means that the changes are constantly being synchronized between the primary and the standby instance. This means that not only do we have an instance in both availability zones, but all of our data is being stored in both availability zones as well. So this is strictly for the purposes of improving availability. It does not improve performance. The primary instance is doing all of the work. It's handling all of the reads. It's handling all of the writes. If I need to scale, if I need to improve the performance of the RDS instance, then I'll use something like read replicas to accomplish that. But but Multi-az doesn't give you any performance benefit. And if a failure does occur, it typically takes between 1 to 2 minutes to failover from the primary to the standby. So let's go through a diagram here and take a closer look at how this works in Multi-az. You have a master or a primary instance and a standby instance. And so here on the far left we see our application. This is the database client. This is whatever is interacting with the database. And if the database client is going to read something from the database or write something to the database, all of those options are carried out on the primary. The master RDS instance. The standby RDS instance is in a different availability zone. It has to be in the same region as the primary, and all of the changes that are occurring in the master are going to be replicated to the standby, and data is replicated synchronously between the master and the standby. So if there is a need to failover, over there should be zero data loss when you failover to the secondary and the standby instance is just sitting there passively, it's not doing any of the work, it's just accepting all of that replicated data. Now the key piece of Multi-az RDS, the piece that makes it all work is this this DNS record. Both of these instances have the same DNS name, so the database client doesn't know the IP addresses of the RDS instances. It knows the DNS name of the RDS instance in general. And that's what we're going to program into all of our applications. They're going to see the database as this DNS record. And so if the master instance fails, the DNS record still exists. And that DNS record can now be updated to repoint all of the database activity to the standby. And again this entire process takes between 1 to 2 minutes. You can always test failover by rebooting the master instance. And so if I choose to reboot the master instance, you can do what's called a reboot with failover and rebooting the master RDS instance with failover will cause the DNS record to get updated, and it'll start sending all of that database traffic to the standby. So the biggest piece of Multi-az is this enhanced availability. Now we have database instances in multiple AZS, and we can failover from the master to the standby at any time. However it also has an impact on maintenance. So if maintenance activities need to be performed like for example, let's say the database engine needs to be upgraded, that will take place on the standby first. The upgrade will be performed on the standby, and then all database activity is going to be repointed to that standby. And so now we can perform that maintenance task on the master RDS instance without any impact on the performance of our clients. So the only impact would be essentially moving all of the traffic over to the standby instance. What about backups? This is another benefit of Multi-az RDS. So we've learned about manual snapshots and automated backups. And as we learned about those topics, we learned that those backups and those snapshots have a performance impact on the RDS instance. Well, that's not the case with Multi-az RDS, because if I need to take a backup, I can just take it from the standby. And the standby is not doing any of the work anyhow. So what difference does it make if there's a performance hit on the standby? Because we're not using it for any active work anyways. So that's one of the other benefits of Multi-az is the fact that it can eliminate the performance impact of backups and snapshots, and it can greatly reduce the performance impact of performing database upgrades.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Configure Multi-AZ RDS and Test Failover with Reboot

In this video, I'll demonstrate how to configure Multi-az RDS on a database instance. And so here you can see I'm in the RDS console here. And I've got my database instance that we've been working with. And now we can go to actions and we can convert this to a Multi-az deployment. Now I can choose do I want this to happen during the next maintenance window, or do I want to carry it out right away? You may want to wait until your maintenance window. They don't recommend conversion on a production database instance. Now what you could do is you could create a read replica of this database instance, and you could convert the read replica to a multi-az deployment and then promote that later on. I'm going to show you more about read replicas later on, but since this is just a demo RDS instance, I'm just going to go ahead and convert it to Multi-az. And so now it's going to modify this database instance and it's going to create a standby database instance. Now notice this RDS instance is running in Availability zone US East two A. The new RDS instance that it's going to create is going to be in a different availability zone. So now we can see that we have successfully converted this RDS instance to a Multi-az database deployment. And if I scroll all the way over to the right here, you can see here this one is marked as Multi-az. So let's go back to Ric demo RDS and just notice what we have here is the DNS name of this RDS instance. Now this DNS name is currently pointing all traffic towards the primary RDS instance. And you can see here that the RDS instance is in the US East two Availability zone. Notice what we cannot see. We can't see the standby instance here. So which availability zone is the standby instance running in. Well let's click on our database identifier and go to configuration. And if we scroll down a little bit here you can see that Multi-az is enabled. And the primary is in availability zone two A the secondary is an availability zone two B. So now that we understand which availability zones we're working with here for this instance I'm going to go to actions. And we have the ability to reboot this RDS instance. And it's giving me the option to reboot with failover. So if I select that option the primary instance is going to get rebooted and we are going to fail over to the standby. So I'm just going to hit confirm here. And then we'll give this process a moment to complete. And this will take anywhere from 1 to 2 minutes for it to fail over. You can see right now it's still pointed at availability zone US East two A. Now one thing I do want to make a quick side note of even when this process finishes, even when this reboot is complete and we fail over to the other availability zone, you may notice that it doesn't immediately reflect that in the AWS console. Sometimes it takes a little bit longer for the AWS console to update and reflect that. We have moved to a new availability zone, and so now you can see the status of my database is available again, but it's still in the US East two A region. I'm going to pause my recording and wait a couple of minutes and see if that availability zone successfully updates. And actually, before I pause my recording, let's just explore a little bit. You can see it still says US East two A here. Let's just click on the database instance and go to configuration. Again you can see it still says US East two a if I scroll down here it's showing the secondary zone is to be. So this part of the console still hasn't updated yet either. So we're just going to give it a couple moments and hopefully soon it'll show us east to be. All right. So I waited about ten minutes and you can see the console has finally figured out what's going on. This database has failed over. So the primary instance is now in the US East two B region. Let's click on the database identifier here. Let's go to configuration. And let's look at multi AZ. So now the primary is in US East two B and the secondary is in the US east two A. You'll notice that the endpoint name has not changed. This means the DNS name of the database instance has not changed. If your client was pointed to this end point prior to failover, it'll still be using the same endpoint. So therefore the failover will be completely transparent to your client application.

---

### Lecture: RDS Read Replicas

In this video, we'll learn how read replicas can be used to scale RDDs. But before we start talking about read replicas, I want to talk about one of the other scaling options for RDDs. Now we have the ability to either scale up or scale out RDDs. So let's talk about scaling up first. When I create an RDS instance, I'm going to choose a specific instance type. And different instance types have different amounts of memory and of CPU and of other performance characteristics as well. So what I could do is I could take my existing RDS instance, and I could simply change the instance type to something more powerful. So if I need more resources, I can always just change the instance type, which involves a reboot, but is a relatively easy way to scale RDS. However, this is not the preferred approach. We still only have one RDS instance here, so we still have a single point of failure and multi-az RDS would help us resolve that. But AWS wants us to scale out and not scale up. So this is an example of scaling up. Let's look at an example of scaling out. We can scale out with read replicas. And read replicas are going to provide read only copies of our RDS instance to improve the performance and also to improve durability. So instead of just having one instance, we're going to have multiple instances that are going to asynchronously replicate. Basically meaning if we have our primary instance, everything that changes within it is going to be asynchronously replicated to the read replicas. Read replicas are supported on MySQL, MariaDB, and Postgres databases within RDS. So when you create a read replica, a snapshot is taken of the source RDS instance. And if you're just using a single RDS instance, well, any time you take a snapshot, there's going to be a performance impact. Now, if you're using Multi-az RDS, this snapshot will be taken from the standby and therefore it will not impact performance. And so once the snapshot is taken, a read replica is deployed. And now all of the read operations from our database clients can be spread across multiple instances. So I could set up some of my database clients to read from the master, and some of them to read from one read replica, and some of them to read from a different read replica. And this is great if you have heavy read workloads. Each read replica can handle read operations. Each read replica has its own unique DNS address. So I can set up my clients to point to specific read replicas for their read operations. You can have up to five copies. They can be cross availability zone and cross region. So I can have a read replica that's even in a different AWS region. And this also gives me some availability and durability benefits because I can always promote a read replica. And so when you promote a read replica, what you're essentially doing is you're saying, I no longer want this read replica to be a read replica. I want it to be its own independent database. And so if something catastrophic happens and a region is down for an extended period, we could promote a read replica in a different region and point all of our clients to that. Once a read replica is promoted, it is no longer a read replica anymore. Its relationship with the master database is broken. And I have to have automatic backups configured if I want to use read replicas. This is a prerequisite. So let's take a look at a little diagram here. Here's my master instance running in a specific availability zone within region one. I can create a read replica and I can put it in the same availability zone. I could put it in a different availability zone, and the database clients can then be configured to perform reads against the read replica, and to perform writes on the master RDS instance. The read replica cannot handle writes. You can't perform any writes on it, you can only perform reads. But the idea here is that in read heavy workloads where we have a lot of read operations going on, we can now offload those from the master RDS instance and spread it across a group of read replicas. And as mentioned, those read replicas can be indifferent availability zones. They can be in the same availability zone. They can be in different regions. And so in this case, let's say that I have deployed a read replica in a separate AWS region. Maybe region one is Ohio, maybe region two is California. Now there's a few reasons that we may want to do this. Maybe I've got database clients in that other region, and I don't want them sending all of that read traffic to a different AWS region, because it's going to be slower and because there's going to be transfer charges associated with that. So in that scenario, yeah, it's a great idea to create a read replica in a different AWS region. But the other benefit of having a read replica in a separate region is what if region one goes down for an extended time period? Well, I can manually go into the AWS console and I can promote my read replica. And the read replica is then going to become its own independent database. And I could then create read replicas based on this in different availability zones in the other region. So just understand this is a manual operation. And once you perform this manual operation, this database is now independent of the original master. It's its own database instance with its own DNS name. We're going to have to point all of our clients and tell them to perform all of the write operations on this newly promoted read replica. So Cross-region read replicas are supported for MariaDB, MySQL, Oracle, Postgres and SQL server. Now, we've already learned about Multi-az, and we've learned how we can take a database and and create a standby instance in another availability zone. We can also do this for read replicas. So you can have multi AZ on the master database instance. And you can also have multi AZ on the read replicas. And so in this case we've got a primary a master read replica and a standby that's been created in a second availability zone. And everything that changes on the master is being synchronously replicated to the secondary. Just like multi AZ reads with a normal database that's not a read replica. The standby has to be in the same region as the master read replica. And so now this replication traffic is being carried out. And both of these read replicas have the same DNS name. They both have the same exact DNS name. And under normal circumstances, that DNS name is going to send everything to the master read replica. And so that's how my client is configured. It's saying, hey, if you want to perform a read operation on this database, send it to this DNS name. The client does not know the IP address of either of these read replicas. And so as this is going on, all of the data from the master is being replicated to the standby synchronously. And if this master read replica fails, the DNS record is going to be automatically updated to point to the standby read replica in the second availability zone. So we can enable multi AZ on normal databases and also on read replicas of those databases as well. So if we want a read replica to be highly available, this is a great option. Now finally, let's take a moment to talk about the concept of sharding. And we can use read replicas to enable sharding on a database. So let's start with a little scenario here. Let's say that we have this database and it's being overwhelmed with work. And what we want to do is we want to use sharding as a solution in this case. So what sharding means is we want to take some of the contents of this database, and we want to move some of the contents to a new RDS instance. Basically, think about it as dividing your database in half. And now you've got two database instances, each with half of the data. Well, we could do this using read replicas. So step one we create a read replica of the database that we want to shard. And all of the contents of the database are going to be created using a snapshot inside of this read replica. And once the read replica is ready to go, replication will begin to occur as well. So now I have two databases that are exactly the same. The master and the read replica have all of the same contents. Once they are all ready to go and the read replica is ready for action, I can promote the read replica to make it its own independent database. At this point, the relationship between the master and the read replica is broken. There's no more replication occurring from this moment forward. But what we can do now is we can go to our database client and we can say, hey, for certain records, you're going to use this database for certain records, you're going to use this database like for example, maybe the database is a list of users or a list of employees. Well, I can configure my client application to say, hey, if the employee name begins with the letters A through L, that record is going to be in this database. If the employees last name begins with M through Z, those records are going to be in this database. And so that intelligence needs to be present in the database client itself. It needs to know which database to look at for which data and if it's making changes. It needs to know which database to write to.

---

### Lecture: Demo  Read Replicas

In this video, I'll demonstrate how to create a read replica of an RDS instance. So here I am at the RDS dashboard of the AWS console again, and you can see my RDS instance here Rick demo RDS. I'm just going to select this instance. And I can go to actions and I can create a read replica. So here's the replica source. And this is where the source of the replication is going to be. I'm just going to give a new database identifier to the read replica. So I'm going to call it Rick Demo RDS replica. And I can choose the instance class here. Now I may want to choose a different instance class than the primary RDS instance. So maybe I might not want Burstable, I might want memory optimized or standard or something like that here. In this case, I'm just going to choose the T4G micro, just like we did for the master database. Notice I can create the read replica in many different regions, so I can choose a different region here. Now in the case of this demonstration, I'm just going to stick with the same region. I'm going to create a read replica in Ohio. And you can see it's populating all of the storage information here to match the primary. It's a general purpose SSD volume, GP3, 40 gigs of allocated storage. We can see here that storage auto scaling is enabled just like the master database. Now do I want my read replica to be highly available? I can enable Multi-az on my read replica if I want. So that way if the primary availability zone is down, the read replica still works and I have enabled Multi-az on my master database, so I'm going to enable it on the read replicas as well. But I could do if I want to save some money. I don't have to do that right. I could just deploy the RDS instance to a single AZ. I'm going to make it multi-az and I'll choose my subnet group. This is going to govern which subnets inside of my VPC are going to be used to create this RDS instance. I'm just going to use the same security group as my master database. And I'm going to use the same authentication options. If I take any snapshots of this RDS instance, I want it to be tagged and I'll scroll all the way to the bottom here. And I'm going to create the read replica. So what's happening right now is a snapshot is being taken of my master RDS instance. It's creating a full copy of that master RDS instance as a read replica. And this part's going to take a little while. All right. So I waited about ten minutes, and now we can see that the read replica has been successfully created. So now I've got my primary RDS instance. This can handle read and write operations. And if I click on the primary RDS instance you can see the end point. This is the DNS name for the primary instance. If I click on the read replica you'll notice that it has a different endpoint name. So I am going to configure my database clients to perform reads on this DNS name instead of using the DNS name of the primary RDS instance. All right. So now I've got a read replica that is ready to go that is working properly. Everything that's being changed in the primary instance is going to be asynchronously replicated to this read replica. Now, one of the things that we can do with a read replica is we can go to actions here, and we can promote this. And by promoting it, what you are essentially doing is you are taking this read replica and you are making it its own, completely independent RDS instance. You're breaking the relationship between the primary instance and the read replica, and you're making the read replica its own independent RDS instance. So in order to do that, I'm going to have to configure some of our kind of normal options here. I'm going to enable automated backups. We'll just retain one backup per day. And then I'm going to click Promote Read Replica. And so again as usual this part is going to take a few moments for this process to be completed. But the end result here is that the Rick demo replica will no longer be linked and associated with Rick Demo RDS. It's going to stop being a read replica, and it's going to become its own independent database. And so now it took about a minute or so, but I can see that the read replica has now entered the modifying state. And so this process is going to take a little while to complete. All right, so it's been about ten minutes. The read replica has rebooted, a backup was taken of it, and it is now a completely independent database. So you can see it's no longer linked to this primary instance. Now it's its own independent database instance. And so in a scenario in which maybe I wanted to move my RDS instance from one availability zone to another, hey, this could do that job. Or if I wanted to move it from one region to another, this could do that job. I could accomplish that goal. The big thing, though, to just bear in mind here, is that it's not going to take that DNS name with it, right? So the master RDS instance, or I should say the original master has a certain DNS name, a certain endpoint, this instance, which used to be a read replica, but now it's its own independent database, has a different endpoint, a different DNS name. So if I am going to use read replicas to move my instance to a different availability zone or a different region, I'm going to have to reconfigure my clients to point towards that different database instance.

---

*Section 2 of 4 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
