<!-- Section 5 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 5 OF 15: Amazon S3 Pricing
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon S3 Pricing

In this section. We're going to talk all about Amazon S3 pricing. Now, this is going to be an important aspect to understand for effective and cost effective management on Amazon S3. So when we step back and take a look at high level with the basics are of Amazon S3 pricing, it's mainly contingent on three core elements here. Now first, we have the amount of data you can store and that should be pretty obvious and straightforward. The more data that you store in S3, well, the higher your costs are going to be. Amazon S3 charges you for the total volume of data that you're storing in your buckets. And that, of course, is all measured in gigabytes. The second one is storage class. Now we talked about storage class earlier, and when you upload your objects, you're going to choose a storage class that you want to store that object in. And that storage class has a significant impact on the cost of storing that item on S3. Now, of course, we talked about S3 offers like this wide range of classes designed for all these specific use cases, and each one of those vary in price. So for instance, if we have frequent access, data can be stored in our standard class, while our infrequently access data can go in our infrequent access class or something like a one zone infrequent class, those can be actually cheaper than storing it in traditional S3 standard. Now there's also the glacier and the glacier deep archive classes for long term archival, and those are very, very cheap. So the trick here is to select the storage class that best matches your usage patterns and your needs. Now, lastly, the region where you store your data is also important in regards to the cost. Now, of course, Amazon has data centers spread out through the entire world in all these different regions, and the cost of storing data can really vary depending on the region that you choose. For example, storing data in North Virginia, which is the typical default region for most folks, it might be cheaper than storing the same amount of data in Tokyo now, factors that impact costs of how much it costs to store data on S3 may be things like data sovereignty, latency, the cost to run those data centers in that particular region. I think you'll find that anything in Northern California is probably going to be more expensive than Ohio because, well, it's just more expensive to run things in Northern California. The electricity costs more. The land to build data centers costs more. So naturally, Amazon needs to charge a little bit more to make up for some of those costs. So understanding these three factors, the amount of data we store, the storage class that we choose, and of course the region of where our data resides will definitely help you manage your S3 costs. Now, it's imperative to regularly review and optimize all these factors to ensure cost efficiency for your data that you're storing. So let's take a look at a cost comparison. Now keep in mind these are the current costs of Amazon S3 and from my experience, I don't know, ten plus years of working with AWS. The cost for S3 have traditionally only gone down. Very rarely does actually raise its prices. These should be fairly consistent depending on when you're watching this. So if we look at S3 standard now, all these costs are per gigabyte, per month to store a gig on Amazon S3 Standard, it's going to cost you just over $0.02. Now, keep in mind, these are all in US dollars or really in US cents. So you're looking at .02, three of a dollar, so $0.02 plus a little bit to store a gig that's still super cheap. Now, as we continue moving to the right, we're going to skip Intelligent-tiering for right now. But if we go to S3 standard infrequent access, you can see that the cost is almost half. It's one and a quarter penny, so one penny plus a little bit more, 00.0125 of a dollar. So again, just over a penny to store a gig each month on standard infrequent access. Now if we continue moving on S3 one Zone iAa now that is just a penny, so it is a little bit cheaper than standard iAa As we continue moving to the right glacier instant retrieval, it's even cheaper than a penny. I don't know if you could believe that, but it is only 0.004 of a dollar. It's actually less than half of a penny. So really, really cheap. And that's per gig. If we go to flexible retrieval, we're even cheaper than that. So 003, six of a dollar. And then finally we get to Glacier Deep Archive, which is by far our cheapest. Way to store our data. It's incredibly cheap. So you're looking at, I don't know, 100th of a penny or something like that for Glacier Deep archive from a dollar. You got 0.00099. Incredibly cheap to store data in glacier deep archive. And so again based upon some of these slides that we've already seen before, now keep in mind that data more towards the left is really geared towards data that's going to be more frequently accessed. And as we move towards the right, that's data that is less frequently accessed. And as we get all the way down to deep archive, that's data that, well, we may touch once a year, maybe even less than that. So super, super cheap to store that archival data. Now if we take a step back and look at Intelligent-tiering, so we talked about Intelligent-tiering when we introduced our storage classes. Now remember, S3 Intelligent-tiering has multiple tiers within it and that allows us to move our data between tiers depending on our access patterns. Now, Intelligent-tiering actually uses the other classes that you already see on the screen, so the prices are going to be similar depending on the access tier that we're using within Intelligent-tiering. So if we have our fast access tier, that's going to be the same price as S3 standard because that's really where our data is living. It's an S3 standard, so that's where Intelligent-tiering is going to store that data for us. So naturally the price is going to be the same. Now, if Intelligent-tiering moves our data to infrequently accessed, well, it's just going to live on S3 standard IA and of course it's the same price as standard IA. And finally, as we get to more of our archive tier, we're going to have the same price as Glacier. So we're going to have less than half of a penny for that type of tier. So you can kind of see how Intelligent-tiering compares in terms of pricing. You can immediately see the benefits of using Intelligent-tiering by the cost savings as we move from our fast access tier, which is .023 for a gig. Then as we move down to IA, we're a 0.125, so almost half of that. And then as we continue moving down, it's way, way cheaper than that as we move down to our archive tier. So good comparison there just to kind of showcase how much it costs per gig per month for each one. Now let's showcase an example here. We're going to calculate the cost per month. Well, it's just a simple math problem. We have 40 gig of data to store on Amazon S3 Standard. Well, it's super easy. 40 gig times 0.23 equals $0.92. That's going to be our bill for storing 40 gig of data on Amazon S3 So super easy to do that. Now, keep in mind that if you're storing terabytes, if you're storing megs, you may actually have to do some conversion because most of the pricing is based upon gig. So you may have to do some conversion like, okay, I'm storing X amount of terabytes, how many gig is that? Or if I'm storing X amount of Meg, what percentage of that is a gig? And then we can do the math there. Pretty easy to calculate costs per month. So in our discussion of Amazon S3 costs, I wanted to quickly point out to an attractive feature of S3 pricing. Now that is volume discounts. Everyone loves a discount. Now these discounts are going to apply specifically to the S3 standard storage class, and that's going to be used for, of course, our general purpose storage of data, frequently accessed data. Now, when you look at the pricing of this for the first 50TB of data that you store and of course this is based upon each month you're going to be charged that rate that we just talked about of $0.023 per gigabyte per month, pretty easy, but that's for the first 50 terabyte. So for instance, if you're going to store ten terabytes of data, your cost would be about $230 for that month. Now, as we begin to store more data, as we push over that 50 terabyte bar, well, Amazon is going to start providing us a discount for data storage that ranges from like 50TB all the way up to just less than 500, 499TB. We're actually going to be charged at a slightly lower rate of $0.022 per gigabyte per month. So not a huge difference, but hey, I'll take any discounts that I can get for storing my data. Now, again, it may seem like a small decrease, but when you're dealing with very large quantities of data, again now we're talking about close to 500TB of data, this reduction can really start to lead to some significant savings. Now, finally, when you hit the 500 terabyte mark and beyond, your cost is going to drive further down to $0.21 per gigabyte per month. So once again, at this level of data storage, the reduced rate can look slightly small, but it can result in substantial cost reduction for you because again, we're charging per gigabyte per month. And now we're storing 500TB or more in S3. Now, one thing I want to note that these discounts only apply to S3 Standard Storage class. While it's the most commonly used, we may be storing data on other storage classes that might better suit our needs. Now, if you look at the previous slide, you can see that if we decide that we're going to use other storage classes, well, we're already going to be saving a substantial amount of money below even the lowest rate that's shown on the slide here of 0.021. So remember when we moved to Standard-ia, it was like 0.025, something like that, and even below. So these discounts only apply to S3 Standard as we move to our other storage classes. Of course we're going to have much cheaper rates. So that's pretty easy to understand how we can estimate our costs or determine our costs per gigabyte per month depending on the storage class that we choose, and then how much data that we're going to store in S3. However, if you kind of step back, unfortunately there's a lot more to determining S3 costs than just our typical gigabyte per month in our storage class. So we're going to go through all of those here.

---

### Lecture: Understanding Requests and Data Retrieval Fees

The first one that I want to talk about is calculating puts. Now, of course, a put is referring to the http verb of put meaning. We're going to put or upload data to Amazon S3. Now Amazon is going to charge you $0.005 per 1000 requests for any put copy post or list requests on Amazon S3 Standard. Now you may get different prices depending on the storage class, but I use Amazon S3 Standard as the baseline here, so you can kind of understand that. So what we're going to do is we're going to calculate our puts. So for example, we have 40 gig of data that consists of 5000 files. So if we have 5000 files and we want to upload all 5000 of those files, well that's going to be 5000 puts or copies or posts because we need to upload each one of those individual files and ultimately that becomes an object inside of our S3 bucket. So to calculate that we have 5000 divided by 1000. So we have 5000 files, which is 5000 puts and we're going to charge per 1000 puts. So we just do 5000 divided by 1000, which is five. And then we're going to multiply that by the cost per 1000 requests on S3 standard, which is 0.005. And that ultimately is going to lead to a upfront cost of just about two and a half cents. So that's going to be our cost to upload our 5000 files. Now keep in mind, this is in addition to what Amazon S3 is going to charge us for the data storage of these 5000 files. That's that 40 gig of data that we're storing. We also now have to calculate our puts to understand how much it's going to cost to actually upload this stuff. So that's an easy way to determine how much is going to cost for puts. Now if we calculate our gets. So if we have that same 40 gig of data, but maybe it's requested 1 million times a month, maybe it's part of a website where people download it or something like that. Maybe it's a TikTok, maybe it's a YouTube video that people are accessing and watching on their mobile phone. So Amazon is going to charge us $0.0004 per 1000 requests. And so in this case, we have 1 million requests. It's access 1 million times. We're going to divide that by that 1000. That's how Amazon charges us. And ultimately we're going to times that by the cost and get our total monthly cost here. So if you look at the bottom, we have 1 million say app requests on the left. We divide that by 1000 and then we're going to times that by the cost per 1000 request. And ultimately this is going to be $0.40. Doesn't seem like a whole lot. But again, these are the other charges that you need to be aware of when you're working with Amazon. S3 So that's puts and then we have gets here. So let's talk about life cycle transition requests. Amazon S3 charges us a small fee for requests to a different storage class during our life cycle transitions. So we have life cycle rules that are moving data around forests. Well, AWS is going to charge us for that. So for every 1000 requests that you have, Amazon charges us one penny. So for example, down here at the bottom, we've got our user, our user may be uploads or writes data or objects to Amazon S3 Standard. We're going to get charged for the puts that we just talked about before. But now if we have a rule that says, okay, I want to move things 90 days later to a and then we have another rule that says, okay, now I want to move those files to Glacier in 180 days and then ultimately three years down the road, we're going to delete it. Well, Amazon's going to charge us for those life cycle transitions, and each file that gets moved is a request. So if we have for every 1000 files or requests, Amazon is going to charge us that one penny. So just something else to keep in mind. So if we have a lot of life cycle rules or a lot of transitions in the place where we're moving data down to other tiers, quite often we may see an impact on our S3 bill here. Let's move over to data retrieval requests. So we talked about that before, but objects stored in certain classes will incur a charge for data retrieval, and these include S3 Standard IA, S3, one Zone iAa, and of course, our Glacier family of storage classes, instant retrieval, flexible retrieval and deep archive. So if we do pull data out of these storage classes, we will have to pay for the data retrieval requests. Now these can vary depending on how fast you need your data. Similar to our analogy before, if I need to ship a package, the faster it needs to get their UPS, Fedex, DHL, they're going to charge me more money. The faster that you need to pull your data out of any of these storage classes, AWS is going to charge you more money. The slower you need it, the less they're going to charge you. So keep that in mind. So let's take a look at the pricing here. Again, these are current as of today, S3 standard, infrequent access, a penny per gig to pull it out. Same thing for one zone IA and then glacier instant retrieval. You can see it's a little bit more. We have $0.03 per gig when we pull data out of instant retrieval. Now for Glacier flexible retrieval, we have different price models depending on how fast we're going to pull our data out of glacier flexible retrieval. You see, we have three options. We have expedited standard and bulk. So we need to pull our data out really, really fast from flexible retrieval. They're going to charge us just over $0.03 per gig plus a $12 flat fee, and that's per 1000 requests for standard, which is a little bit slower. So naturally we're going to pay a little bit less here. We're going to have just over a penny per 1000 requests plus $0.06 and then bulk. So if you want to pull data out of glacier flexible retrieval and you choose bulk, which can take a while to get your data, well, they don't actually charge for that. If you don't need your data immediately, well, choose bulk and you can save on those retrieval fees. Now, if you look at deep archive here, so we have two options, two speeds, if you will, to pull data out of Glacier deep archive. We have standard which is just about two and a half cents per thousand requests plus $0.12. And then we have bulk. You can see it's considerably cheaper. It's half of a penny plus $0.03 per 1000 requests. So again, I told you it can be kind of complex when you start thinking about other costs in regards to Amazon S3 When you start actually moving data around, retrieving data, life cycle transitions gets puts, all those kind of things. There's a lot more to it than just storage. So when you do retrieve data from Amazon S3, what's going to happen is it's actually going to copy that data from the existing storage class that it's stored in. It's going to copy that over to Amazon S3 Standard for you so you can quickly access it. Now, keep in mind that when you do restore this archived object, you are going to pay for both the archive and the copy that you restored temporarily. If you restore data, then it's going to copy it to S3 You're still going to pay for that data stored in the archive or instant retrieval. But now, since you've created an object in Amazon S3 Standard, you're also going to pay for that object as well. If you are going to restore data there, then you need to go ahead and delete that data after it's being used so you don't actually pay for it twice.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Using the Cost Calculator for Amazon S3

All right. Welcome to this demonstration of the AWS pricing calculator. So in Chrome here, I've gone to calculator dot AWS and you can see we're presented with the screen where we can go ahead and start creating an estimate. So I'm going to go ahead and click on this Create estimate button in yellow. So what we can do is start adding different services to our estimate to understand how much is going to cost. So the first thing I'm going to do is select on search for all services. On the right, I'm going to click down here, I'm going to type in S three. Now I can scroll down here and find Amazon Simple Storage Service and I'm going to click on configure here. All right. So now what we can do is start configuring our estimate related to Amazon S3. All right, Maybe we have a particular workload that we want to figure out how much that's going to cost. So up here, maybe we can type in data analytics. Application and then we can choose a location. So in this case, us East two, which is Ohio, is selected. And of course you can choose whatever region is closest to you. Scroll down a little bit more and now we can select the storage class and other features that we want to include in this estimate. So in this case, maybe since it's a data analytics application, we want the highest performance. So we're going to leave S3 standard in play. So I'm going to scroll down a little bit more and now we're going to provide information about our data. So we have S3 standard storage. How much data are we going to put inside of our bucket, let's say, for example, 60TB. So we're going to type in 60 here and go over here and drop in terabyte per month. Now, immediately, if you look down here at the bottom, you have a total monthly cost. You can see that monthly it's going to cost us $1,402.88 per month to store 60TB in S3 Standard. Now, there's a little bit more to pricing here. Right now. We find how much data is going to be moved into S3 Standard. Is the data already in S3 or are we going to have to move it? So if we're going to use put copy post requests, we're going to choose that, right? We're going to upload our data into S3 because it does not yet exist. Then we're presented with this. How big is the average object size? Is it 16 Meg? Is it bigger? Is it smaller? You would select that based upon your average object size, right? In order to get an estimate, if you don't know it, you may need to either just leave the defaults or perform some calculations on your data. Say, for example, ours is 100 Meg per file, so you get an estimate down here, your total upfront cost of how much it would cost for all those puts into S3. Now how often are you going to update or put additional storage into your S3 bucket if you're only going to put this data up there one time and then consume it frequently, maybe not update it, you can just leave this as zero. How often are you going to get this data? Okay, maybe this data analytics is really important to our organization and we're going to run a number of calculations against it. So let's say 500,000 times we're going to perform, gets or selects against this data. So how much data is going to be turned by S3 select or data scanned by S3 Select? We're going to leave that blank for now. As we continue down, we can see we have additional costs around data transfer, inbound data transfer, right? We already know the inbound is free to AWS. If you look at this, we have internet free and all other regions is free. However, outbound data transfer does cost us money. So if you're going to transfer data outside of our bucket, you can also add that to your estimate. So we're going to leave that blank right now. And at the bottom right, I'm going to click on Save and View Summary. So now, based upon what we just added, our total yearly cost for storing 60TB in S3 standard may be $16,840. And you can see that broken down as a monthly cost of $1,403. Now, if you scroll down, you can see the estimates that we've added to our summary here. We've got one estimate and we've added 60TB of S3 standard storage. Maybe we've got another workload where we need to store, I don't know, 100TB in something like deep archive. So we can click on Add service again, we can find S3 and we're going to go through the same process, configure, and this time, instead of choosing S3 Standard, we're going to go over here and choose S3 Glacier Deep Archive. Now, I will go up and we'll select a description on this. Maybe this is going to be archival data for data analytics team. All right. So this is going to be archival data. Again, we've selected our deep archive here. Now we're going to add 100TB to our deep archive to get an understanding on how much that's going to cost. And for now, we're just going to leave everything else as blank. All right, So I'm going to click on Save and View Summary. So now you can see our total yearly costs went up a little bit to $18,072. If you scroll down, you can see where that's broken down. The first one is where we added 60TB into S3 Standard, which is right here. And the second estimate is where we added 100TB into S3 Glacier. Deep archive, right? You can even see my descriptions right here. So again, if you need to understand how much it's going to cost in order to store your data in S3, this is a great way to go ahead and get an estimate. Now, keep in mind that unless you are very specific about your data transfers and your object sizes and all that stuff, this is an estimate, right? It's not going to be exactly this much, but at least you can get an understanding and an idea of what you're going to be charged each month for storing the amount of data that you think you're going to use. All right. So that's it for the cost calculator. Hopefully you better understand how to use this and how to get an estimate on your data storage for S3.

---

### Lecture: Determining Data Transfer Costs for Amazon S3

So the next topic I want to touch on is data transfer to S3. Now, any time we're moving data between some other target or source, well, Amazon's probably going to charge us for it. However, in the case of transferring data into S3 from the Internet, maybe that's from your house, maybe that's from your office or your data center and you're doing a data transfer objects into S3. Well, Amazon actually doesn't charge you for that. They want you to bring data into Amazon S3 So to entice you to do that, well, they don't charge you any data transfer fees to do that. However, if you do decide to transfer data from Amazon S3, well, it can get a little bit complex in terms of how much they're going to charge you. And it all depends on where you're going with that data. Now, to start off, the first 100 gig is free each month. Now that's a vast change of what Amazon used to provide back in the day. It used to be any data that came out of S3 is going to be charged some kind of fee. Now they actually give you 100 gigabyte for free each month to the Internet. And by the Internet, I mean from S3 across the Internet to something like your office or data center to your house to wherever. Now, after that 100 gig, AWS does charge per gig that you pull out of S3 And again, it's one of those tiered structures. So for the first ten terabytes, they're going to charge you $0.09 per gig. The next 40TB is going to be just over $0.08 per gig. So just a little bit cheaper. The next 100TB is going to be $0.07. And if you're going to pull out more than 150TB, it's going to be $0.05 per gig. So again, it depends on how much data you pull out or download from S3 and transfer that to some other target location. Now, data transfer to other AWS services a little bit different before we were talking about to and from the Internet. So some other location outside of AWS. Now if you're transferring data within AWS with to and from other AWS services, there are different charges. It's a lot cheaper there. So if you are going to transfer data from Amazon S3 and you happen to use Amazon CloudFront in order to host those files, well, they don't actually charge you for that. That is free. Now, transfers to other AWS regions is actually just $0.02 a gig, but it can be considerably more depending on the source region that you're going to. Remember before we talked about that different regions cost different prices because maybe it costs more to operate data centers there. So if you move data out of S3 that lives in Africa, which is Cape Town, it's actually going to be just over $0.14 per gigabyte. So that's considerably more expensive than other regions that may just charge like a penny or two between different regions. So again, keep that in mind. Keep in mind where you're transferring that data to because other regions may cost a considerable amount more of money. Don't forget that on top of that data transfer fee, well, the fee to store that data in that target location may be considerably more from where it's stored now. So, again, if you're moving data from something like us East One to maybe Africa, Cape Town, the data storage fee per gig per month may be considerably less than US East one than it is in Cape Town. And don't forget, you have to pay that data transfer fee in order to move it and copy it from one to another as well. Something to keep in mind there. All right. So that wraps up the cost management section. Hopefully these were helpful. And you better understand all the different costs that are associated with not only storing data on Amazon S3, but interacting, moving, copying and restoring data in Amazon S3 as well. So thanks for watching the lecture and we'll see you in the next one.

---

*Section 5 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
