<!-- Section 7 of 20 | Course: ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 7 OF 20: More Tools for Building AI Applications
**Course:** `ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional`

---
### Lecture: Section Intro

Welcome to more tools for building generative AI applications. A deep dive into the AWS services and architectural patterns that let you turn Foundation models into fully featured, production ready applications. In this section, you'll learn how to connect your AI logic to the rest of your system, automate workflows, and build the integration points that make your application scalable, reliable, and enterprise grade. We'll start with AWS Lambda and walk through multiple integration patterns, including invoking bedrock directly from serverless functions. Then we'll explore Amazon API gateway and how to expose gen AI functionality securely through custom APIs. You'll also learn how to manage dynamic settings like on the fly model selection using AWS Appconfig. From there, we'll move into AWS Step Functions, where you'll learn how to design state machines, manage stopping conditions, apply circuit breaker patterns, and implement complex agentic reasoning workflows like react and chain of thought routing. You'll also build a hands on project that chains prompts together using step functions and bedrock. We'll then look at the DevOps side of gen AI development using code, build, code, deploy, and code pipeline to create automated CI CD workflows. You'll also explore MLflow as a tool for experimentation and tracking performance across different LM configurations. Next, we'll cover a variety of services that expand the capabilities of your AI applications. Appsync for GraphQL APIs, outposts, and wavelength for hybrid and edge deployments. Amazon SQS for asynchronous workloads. AWS amplify for rapid front end integration and event driven patterns with EventBridge, SNS, and Appflow. We'll wrap up with best practices for creating Foundation model API interfaces, ensuring your generative AI components are accessible, secure, and easy to integrate across your organization. By the end of this section, you'll be comfortable building full gen AI powered applications using the broader AWS ecosystem, connecting models to tools, workflows, and infrastructure that work at scale. Let's get started.

---

### Lecture: AWS Lambda

Let's talk about AWS Lambda. Lambda is a serverless data processing tool that you can use. Let's talk about what that means. So what is Lambda? Basically, it's a way to run little snippets of code in the cloud. So if you have a little bit of code in pretty much any language you can imagine, Lambda can run that for you without you having to worry about what servers to run it on, so you don't have to go and provision a bunch of EC2 servers to run your code. Lambda does that for you. It thinks about the actual execution of your code. You just think about what the code itself does. So it is a serverless method of actually running little bits of code that will scale out continuously without you having to do anything. Lambda will automatically scale out the hardware that it's running on as needed, depending on how much data is coming into it. So you can see how this fits into a big data world. If you have a lot of data flowing in, Lambda will automatically scale itself up and down to handle the processing of that data dynamically. In the context of big data, it's often used to process data as it's moved around from one service to another. So some services don't talk directly to other services in AWS, but Lambda can be used as a glue between anything, pretty much so it can sit there and get triggered by some other service sending data into it like a Kinesis data stream. Reformat that information into a format required by some other service. Send that data to another service for further processing, and maybe retrieve that data and send it back. So lambda is just a way of like running little stateless bits of code in the cloud that is often used to just glue different services together in big data. Let's look at an example. It's not always used for big data. A very common use of lambda is in use of a serverless website, and it's actually possible to build a website without having any servers that you manage at all. This is called a serverless website. And you can do this with AWS Lambda. Now, you normally can't do this with a really dynamic website, but if you can build your website by just having static HTML and Ajax calls embedded within that HTML, well, you can serve that from S3 or something, right? And then the Ajax calls are all you need to deal with. So maybe you have an API gateway and Amazon that sort of serves as the wall between the outside clients and you, the interior of your system there. So let's say, for example, you have a website where someone needs to log in. That login request might go through the API gateway, which in turn would then get sent off to AWS Lambda. Lambda would say, okay, the website wants this person to log in. It could turn around and craft a request to Amazon Cognito to say, do you authenticate this user or not? Amazon Cognito will come back and say, sure, here's your token. Lambda could then format that result and send it back to the website. So Lambda is sort of the glue there between the website API and Cognito on the back end. Similarly, let's say that we're building a chat application on our front end there. Maybe we need to retrieve the chat history for that user ID once they've logged in. So again the API gateway would receive that request. Lambda would be triggered by that API request and say, okay, I need to go get the chat history for this user ID. How do I craft that request to DynamoDB? It would then turn around, craft that request to DynamoDB for that chat history, talk to DynamoDB to get that, and then send it back through the API gateway back to the website. So here you see Lambda often fills a role as sort of the glue between different services. That's exactly how we're going to use it in our application here. Very soon we're going to build this out. You'll recall that in our Order History app. Previously we used a Kinesis consumer application running on an EC2 host to sort of serve as the glue between Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon DynamoDB. Now, we don't want to have to manage EC2 servers for such a simple task as that. We can use Lambda instead. That's a much better choice. So we're going to build a Lambda function that actually sits between our data stream that's receiving server logs coming in and between DynamoDB, where we want to store that data. Longer term, Lambda is just going to sit there waiting for triggers of events from the data stream, and each trigger event will actually have a batch of events that needs to go through and extract each individual record, and then turn around and write that into DynamoDB. So again, Lambda is just the glue between the data stream and some other service, in this case DynamoDB. Later in the course, we'll build out a transaction rate alarm. Its only purpose is to notify us when something unusual is happening on our system. So in this case, we have a Kinesis data stream that's receiving events that says something weird is going on that requires someone's attention. Lambda is going to be triggered by those data stream events, and it will then turn around and craft an SNS request to actually send out a message to your cell phone notifying you that something requires your attention. So yet again, Lambda is the glue between two different services that don't talk directly to each other. But because Lambda is just code, it can do anything. It can transform that data in any way. You can talk to any service on the back end. You can imagine it can do whatever you want. So it's sort of the magic glue that enables you to put different components together and creative ways. And this is just one example of that.

---

### Lecture: Lambda Integration Patterns, Part 1

So what's the big deal about serverless processing of your code? Why not just run it on a server? Well, I mean, even though Lambda is still running on servers under the hood, they're not servers that you manage, and that's a big deal. So Amazon has people with pagers to keep those servers working and dealing with all the patches and monitoring and hardware failures and stuff. So you don't have to you don't think about that at all when you're running AWS Lambda. All you think about is the code that you have running on it. And yes, even though individual servers can be cheap, scaling those servers out can get very expensive very fast. And if you scale out a fleet to run your function to manage your peak capacity, you're going to end up paying for a lot of processing time that you're not even using when you're off peak. With Lambda, you only pay for the processing time that you're actually consuming, so that can be huge from a cost savings standpoint. And although it's not so big of a deal in the big data world, if you're dealing with something like a serverless website, it does make it easier to split up your development between front end development and back end development. So while the back end work can happen in your Lambda functions, while your front end developers worry about all the static stuff on the front end client website. So there are several main uses of lambda. One is real time file processing. So as new data is coming into S3 or some other destination within AWS, Lambda can be triggered and actually process that file however you want to. And that can include doing some rudimentary ETL that's extract, transform and load. So Lambda is just code. You can do whatever you want in there. And that includes doing ETL on incoming data. You can also do real time stream processing. As we discussed, just listening for new events coming in on a Kinesis Stream or Kinesis Firehose stream. You can also use Lambda as a cron replacement. And this is interesting. You can use time as a trigger for lambda function as well. So just like you can trigger events using cron on a Linux system, you can trigger off lambda events on some fixed schedule as well. So if you need something to happen once a day or once an hour or once a minute or whatever schedule you want, you can actually set that up to call your Lambda function periodically, and that might come in handy for kicking off daily batch jobs of something or something like that. And also it can process arbitrary events from AWS services. And as we'll see, there's a very long list of AWS services that can generate triggers to Lambda. Pretty much any language you want to develop in is supported by Lambda, which is great. Node.js, Python, Java C sharp. Go, PowerShell, Ruby. So you can process data and do whatever you want with it in pretty much whatever language you want. And this is huge, because it means that any system that has an interface in any of these languages is fair game for your Lambda code. So remember lambdas code and with code anything is possible. So you don't have to just limit yourself to serving as a glue or a transformation between different AWS services. You could actually talk to other services outside of AWS if you want, or other libraries even that might enable you to perform more interesting transformations on that data. So really, you can use your imagination when you're using Lambda to do a lot of different stuff. It really makes a lot of things possible, all without managing servers in the process, which is awesome. Now, if you are using Lambda to serve as sort of the glue between AWS services, there's a long list of services here that actually trigger Lambda events for you. So any of these services can fire off triggers to Lambda functions whenever something interesting happens from these services. And this is just a partial list of them guys. So also Alexa. And there's also manual invocation you can do with Lambda functions as well. Let's call out a few of the more common ones that are relevant to big data though. And that would be S3, Kinesis, DynamoDB, SNS and SQS and IoT. So you can integrate Lambda with S3. So whenever a predefined thing happens to an object within S3 that can act as an event data that will invoke a lambda function. So for example a new object gets created in S3. You might have a lambda trigger that picks up the creation of that object, turns around, parses out that information, and sticks it in redshift or something. Same story with DynamoDB. Every time something is changed in DynamoDB table, that can trigger event data that invokes a Lambda function as well, and that allows for real time, event driven data processing for the data arriving in DynamoDB tables, you can integrate Lambda with Kinesis Streams, and then the lambda function can read records from a stream and be processed accordingly. Now, under the hood, Lambda is actually polling the Kinesis stream. The stream is not pushing data into lambda. That can be a important distinction in some contexts there. So remember when you have Kinesis streams, talking to Lambda Kinesis isn't actually pushing that data into lambda as the architectural diagrams might suggest. Lambda actually pulls that stream periodically and collects information from it in a batch manner. You can also integrate Lambda with IoT, so when some device starts sending data to the IoT service, that can then invoke Lambda and process it accordingly as defined in your Lambda function, and it integrates with Kinesis Firehose. In that case, Lambda can transform the data and deliver that transformed data to S3 or Redshift or Elasticsearch or whatever you want. It can output to pretty much anything, because you can write code to do what you want. In response to these triggers. All AWS services have APIs you can call. So really, the sky's the limit as to what you can call downstream from your Lambda function. You can do anything you want. These are just the ones that can trigger a lambda function for you automatically.

---

### Lecture: Lambda Integration Patterns, Part 2

So here's one interesting way in which you might use Lambda to connect S3 with Amazon OpenSearch service. OpenSearch is basically Amazon's version of Elasticsearch. Why? It's called something different and why it branched off is a longer story. We'll talk about OpenSearch in more detail later on in the course, but the thing you need to know about OpenSearch for now is just that it's a well, it's a search engine, right? But it can also be repurposed as like an analytics engine as well. So it's just a way to ingest a bunch of information, be it textual or numeric, and search and query that data in interesting ways and also visualize it. So a common use case would be something like building your own homegrown version of Google Analytics. You can feed in a bunch of log data, for example, that might be getting dumped into a data lake in S3, and maybe you want to visualize that log data to see what the trends are in the server, latency or the number of errors being reported or things like that. So the thing is, you can't directly tie an S3 data lake to Amazon OpenSearch service. You need something in between. In Lambda in this case would be that glue. So the way this would work is you would be dumping data from your logs into S3 through Kinesis Firehose or whatever mechanism you want. And when that data is dumped in there, lambda can be automatically triggered to process that new data. So S3 can say lambda. I got some new data for you. My lambda function can then ingest that data from S3. Transform it. However, I need to change its data types structured in the way that OpenSearch expects, and then turn around and feed that information in near real time to Amazon OpenSearch service. From there, I can use OpenSearch tools to visualize that data, to query it, do whatever I want. So that's one useful application of lambda serving as the glue between other services. In this case, log data in S3 and a visualization and search tool in Amazon OpenSearch service. Another example of using Lambda would be with the data pipeline. So data pipeline again is AWS method of chaining together a process for processing and importing and analyzing your data into a pipeline of data. So the idea here is that again, you might want to do this on demand as new data is received. Now normally with data pipeline you schedule these pipelines so that you can set up a precondition that checks to see if new data is present in S3 before it kicks off. But it's still going to be running on a regular schedule normally. But by using Lambda, you can kick that off on demand. So if you have new data being received in S3 and you don't know when it's going to come in, it's not coming in on some regular schedule. Using Lambda might make sense. The way this would work is, again, you'd have S3 send off a trigger to Lambda when new data is received. Lambda would then turn around and kick off that data pipeline once that data comes in. So in that way, you can process the data as soon as it's received instead of on some regular schedule that you define ahead of time. It can also be used with redshift and Redshift, again, is Amazon's data warehouse product and a big focus of the exam. Now, the best practice for loading data into redshift is using the copy command. You know, basically a command to say go copy data from here and put it in redshift. But again, if you need to respond to new data that can show up at any time, you might want to use AWS Lambda to do that automatically when that new data comes in. So again, the the idea would be that S3 would trigger Lambda whenever new data arrives. And then that could turn around and load that new data into redshift. Now, the problem here is that Lambda is a stateless service. It can't keep track of where you left off by itself. So how do you how does Lambda know where to pick up and where to leave off of when it's importing data from S3 into redshift? Well, in order to do that, you need to use something like DynamoDB to store where you left off. So again, because AWS is stateless in and of itself, if you have persistent state that you need to maintain, such as where did I leave off on importing this data, you're going to have to tie into something like DynamoDB to keep track of that. So the idea here is DynamoDB would keep track of the files that have already been loaded when it was loaded, and to which table, and that data would be used to batch up new files and copy them together using the copy command into redshift. Lambda can also be used with Kinesis. And we've seen this before. So let's say you have Kinesis streaming data going on. Now your Lambda code will receive an event with a batch of stream records coming in, and you can specify the batch size when you do that up to 10,000 records. Now this seems straightforward enough. You know, streaming data comes into Lambda. You can pipe it out into Amazon Kinesis and further processing happens. But there's a lot of little gotchas that can happen along the way. And a big focus of the exam. They love to throw these scenarios at you, where something goes horribly wrong in your application, and you have to figure out the best way to to fix it. So these little details can be very important. So you need to realize that if your batch size for streaming data is too large, that could cause your Lambda service to time out. Now there is an upper limit on how long a Lambda function can run for. By default it's 900 seconds maximum, but that could be configured to be even lower. So if your Lambda function takes too much time to process that batch of streaming data, it could fail. And that would cause a timeout, which will cause the whole system to back up. So that can be one source of errors. Now batches can also be split beyond lambdas payload limit. So in addition to a timeout limit there's also a payload limit of six megabytes. So you would have to take special steps to make sure that your batches are split. If they do exceed six megabytes in data. That's another potential thing to look out for. Another thing to be aware of is that Lambda will automatically retry a batch of streaming data until it succeeds, or until the data expires. That sounds like a great feature, but it can also cause problems. So if you're not handling errors properly, that could actually stall the entire shard. And that would be another failure mode that you need to be aware of. What happens if that's the case? Well, using more shards can help clear that case up. That way you can make sure that your processing isn't totally held up by errors when they're encountered. So if you do have a scenario where, uh, your batch keeps getting retried and an error keeps getting hit and that's stalling your entire pipeline, using more shards is probably one way of fixing that error. Also, remember that lambda processes shard data synchronously. It's not going to be splitting that data up and processing it in parallel. So you do need to take care about thinking about your batch size, how much data you're sending through in a single batch, and making sure that that's something that a synchronously processed lambda function can get through within a short amount of time.

---

### Lecture: Lambda with Bedrock

So why are we talking about Lambda? Well, Lambda has a lot of integration points potentially with bedrock and generative AI and AWS, which is why we're talking about it. So kind of the primary role of Lambda with bedrock is as the glue between bedrock agents and their tools. So lambda is where you can write the code not just to make sure that the requests are well formed, but also to perform any parameter validation or error handling that might be necessary. Also, one use of lambda functions would be to call foundation models itself. So a lambda function could be sort of an interface between an application and bedrock. And maybe that's a way of abstracting away which model you're using. And because it's calling bedrock, which is serverless, that means it can invoke foundation models without provisioning capacity and worrying about all that stuff. So you can actually do that from a lambda function. Also, lambda functions might be used in the context of receiving webhooks with integrations with larger enterprise systems. So maybe you have some data source in your enterprise or externally. Even that fires off a webhook event when new data is available. Maybe your Lambda function is what receives that, and then kicks off a process to ingest that data into a bedrock knowledge base or something. Also, if you're using API gateway in front of your larger AI system, that might include bedrock. Well, that API data has to go somewhere. Often that's a Lambda function to actually accept those JSON events from the API gateway and do something more interesting with them. And one other thing you might be using Lambda for within the context of generative AI is for custom aggregation logic. And I'm talking about aggregating results from more than one model potentially. So you could imagine a world where you're not just calling one bedrock model, you're calling multiple foundation models and letting them all kind of vote on the correct response. Or maybe you're doing a weighted average of their responses and returning that as the final answer. Obviously, that gets expensive. You know, calling more than one model every time is gonna add up fast. But if that's what you want to do for the maximum quality or just for resiliency, that might make sense as well.

---

### Lecture: Amazon API Gateway

So, so far in our serverless journey, we've seen how to create Lambda functions and we've seen how to use DynamoDB. And so the functions can use DynamoDB as a database for our API, and we can do create, read, update, delete on our tables, but we'd like our clients to be able to invoke this Lambda function in some way. So there are multiple of doing it. We can have the client directly invoke the Lambda function, but that means that the client would need IAM permissions, or we've seen we can use an application load balancer to have it in between the client and the Lambda function and that would expose our Lambda function as an HTTP endpoint. There's one last thing we can use. It's called the API Gateway. And this is a serverless offering from AWS which allows us to create REST APIs that are going to be public and accessible for our clients. So the client will talk to the API Gateway and the beautiful things that the API Gateway will then proxy the request to our Lambda functions. So it would use an API Gateway because it provides us more than just an HTTP endpoint. It will provide us a lot of features as we'll see in this section, such as authentication, such as usage plans, development stages and all that kind of things. So the API Gateway has a lot of features and this is just an overview, but we can integrate the API Gateway and Lambda and that gives us a full serverless application. So no infrastructure to manage. We have support for the WebSocket Protocol so we can do real-time streaming through the API Gateway in two different ways. The API Gateway handle API versioning. So we can go from version one to version two and version three and not break our clients. We can handle multiple environments that includes a dev, a test and the prod environment. There is a whole thing about API Gateway and security. So there's a tons of way to enable security on your API Gateway for both authentication and authorization. We have the ability to create API keys, do request throttling in case some clients are doing too many requests on our API Gateway, and we can also use some common standards such as Swagger or Open API 3.0 to import quickly defined APIs, and also we can export them as Swagger and Open API. We can transform and validate request and response in the API Gateway level to ensure that the invocation are correct, and we can generate SDK and API specifications and cache API responses. So lots of features that come with the API Gateway that are not necessarily included when you use something as simple as an application load balancer. So what is the API Gateway integrate with? Well, there is a Lambda function and we've seen this from the previous diagram, so it can invoke a Lambda function. And with this integration, it is the most common way and a very easy way to expose REST a API backed by a Lambda function to do a full serverless application. But also HTTP. So we can expose any HTTP endpoints in the backend. So it could be, for example, an HTTP API you have on premises, or it could be an application load balancer you have on your cloud environment. And why would you do this? Well, you would use an API Gateway to leverage the rate limiting features, the caching, the user authentication, the API keys, et cetera. So it's definitely used full to have a layer of API Gateway on top of your HTTP endpoint. And finally, we can use an evidence service so we can expose any AWS API through the API Gateway. So which ones, for example, where we can start a Step Function workflow, we can post a message to SQS directly from an API Gateway API. Why would you do this? Well, because maybe you want to add authentication, deploy some APIs publicly or do some rate control on some AWS services. So here is an example of the API Gateway used with an AWS service. So example, Kinesis Data Streams. So we want to have people send data into a Kinesis Data Streams but in a secure way, without giving them access to AWS credentials. So what we do is that's in between our clients and our Kinesis Data Streams, we're going to have the API Gateway. And the clients will send HTTP request into the API Gateway. And it's been configured to then send the messages into a Kinesis Data Streams. And as you see in this setting, we don't manage any servers. Then Kinesis Data Stream from there, we can, for example, send the records into a Kinesis Data Firehose and eventually put them into an Amazon S3 bucket in the JSON format. So you start to see the power of API Gateway. You can actually expose any AWS service to the outside through an API Gateway. There are three ways to deploy your API Gateway. This is called endpoint types. So the first type, which is the default one is called Edge-Optimized. This is for your global clients. So that means that your API Gateway is going to be accessible from anywhere in the world. And to be efficient, the request are going to be routed through all the CloudFront Edge locations, which will improve the latency. Your API Gateway is still only in one region where you created it, but it's accessible efficiently from every CloudFormation Edge location. Then there's a regional deployment. So this is when we don't want to use CloudFront Edge locations. So it's when we expect all our users to be within the same region where we created our API Gateway. And if you wanted to, you could create your own platform distribution, and this will give you the same result as an Edge-Optimized distribution, but this time you have more control over location strategies and the platform settings themselves. And then finally, the last kind of API Gateway you can do is a private API Gateway. So this time it's not public. So a private API Gateway can only be accessed from within your VPC. And it will use interface VPC endpoints for your ENIs. And to define access to your API Gateway, you can use a resource policy. Now, a few comments about the security on top of the API Gateway. So you can identify users on the API Gateway in multiple ways. The first way is through IAM roles. So this is very helpful if you have internal applications, for example, running on EC2 instances, and they want to access an API on API Gateway, they can just use IAM roles. If you wanted to have external users, for example, for mobile applications or web applications, then you would use something called Amazon Cognito. Or if you wanted to implement your own logic, you could do do so with a custom authorizer. This is a Lambda function. Also, you can have HTTPS security through your own custom domain name by integration with a service called the AWS Certificate Manager or ACM. And so that certificate, if you're using an Edge-Optimized endpoint must be in us-east-1 but if you're using a regional endpoint then that certificate may be in the same region as the API Gateway stage. Finally, you must set up, of course, a CNAME or an A-alias record in Route 53 to point to your domain and API Gateway. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon API Gateway - Hands On

So let's open API Gateway and we are in the API Gateway console. So as you can see in here, I have option of choosing an API type. So we have HTTP, APIs, we have WebSocket API, REST API, which are public or private, and so as such, we will only deal with a REST API for now. So we can try out new console by clicking on this and this is going to be the default very soon. So please make sure to have that. And then you choose REST API, and then you build it. So when you build an API, a REST API you have several options. You can create a new API, you can import one from an open API definition file. So where it's says file and just import and API's created for you. You can clone an existing API or you can start from the example API. For us, we were going to start from a new API and the name is going to be MyFirstAPI. Now as you see for the API endpoint type, we have three options. We have Regional, Edge-optimized, or Private. So Regional is going to be deployed in one region. Edge-optimized is going to be deployed in many different regions, but it's at the edge that is going to be deployed. And then one, the API will still live in one region. Or private is just private not exposed to the web. To keep things simple right now I'm going to choose regional API type. So let me create the API. And here we are. So now we are here, we are going to create our first method in this API. So for this, you click on create method here and then we choose the method type. So it could be any of these HTTP verbs but we're going to do a GET just to get a page. And then you have to choose the integration type. So you can see we have five options. We have Lambda function, HTTP, Mock, AWS service and VPC link. And the one we'll be testing is Lambda function. But I want to show you that we can also integrate with any service in any region. So we choose a region and then we choose a service. And what it does that you can expose some of your AWS services as an API through API Gateway. So we're going to keep things simple and use Lambda functions in this one. And so we need to choose a Lambda function but for this of course we need to create it. So let's go in Lambda and create our function that is going to react to this API gateway. So create a function and I call this one api-gateway-route-gets. And this is perfect. And then the framework I'll use at the runtime is going to be Python 3.11 but whatever Python 3 or Python should work. So this is perfect. Let's go and create this function. And while this is creating, I wanna show you the code we're going to use. So I am in my code, in my folder and there's lambda-code.py. And this is the entire code we're going to copy to Lambda. And so the idea is that this is a very simple in the function which responds to an event with some context and says, "Hey, the body's going to be hello from Lambda. It's going to be returned as the body." The status code is 200. And then the headers is Content-Type application/json, to let our web browser know that we get back a JSON response. So I'm going to copy this entire code. Scroll down and paste it here. So we're going to deploy this function. So I'm going to click on Deploy to deploy this function, and we can also test it. So for example, I can create a test event called DemoTest. And then we just send this event, we save it and then we click on Test. And as you can see, the result is hello from Lambda with status code 200. So everything is working fine right now and this is perfect. And what I'm going to do now is to integrate, this Lambda function to my API gateway. So back in here, I'm going to copy the function ARN, go to my API gateway, and then just click and paste the ARN. Perfect. So now we have the Lambda function integrated and because we want to see the full requests being passed to Lambda and being sent back from Lambda, you're going to take Lambda proxy integration. Now for timeout, as you can see, even though a Lambda function can have a long timeout, for example, five minutes or 15 minutes, API Gateway has a limited timeout and the default is 29 seconds. You can customize it and have it less than 29 seconds but the default timeout is 29 seconds regardless of how long your Lambda function takes to execute. So let's create this method and this is going to automatically grant API gateway, the right to invoke our Lambda function. So if I go back here and refresh this page, as you can see now our API gateway can invoke our Lambda function and we can verify this by going into the configuration and then permissions. And if we have a look at the resource-based policy statement, this one, and we click on View policy, it turns out that my API gateway is allowed to invoke my Lambda function if the source API is the one from my API gateway being route GET. So this is the stuff that happens behind the scenes on AWS to allow the API gateway to invoke our Lambda function. So we know that everything is done from a security perspective. So now we can have a look at our API gateway. So the client for this one method sends a request and we can have a look at the request itself here. So all the settings are here, it's done integration with Lambda, and so it's a Lambda type of integration with proxy enabled. Then the Lambda itself is this function. We can click on it and get back to our function. Then the response is proxy integration. That means that it will, the API gateway will parse what is being sent by the Lambda and interpret it. And then the method response is what we have here. We could modify it if you wanted to, but we're looking for application/json. So let's test out this API. So for this on the bottom right there is a test and you can specify some query strings or some headers but we don't specify anything. Just click on Test. And the test is, hey, the response body is hello from Lambda. So you can see from the API gateway, the status is 200. That comes right from our code right here which says status is 200. We also have the response body, hello from Lambda, again, was defined in our code right here, body equals json.dumps. And then hello from Lambda. And finally the content type is JSON, and that is retrieved as part of the response headers being content type JSON. On top of it from the test, we can have a look at the execution log from the API gateway, which is really nice, which is also when you wanna debug and see what's happening. A very nice way of doing so. So we have done our first execution of an API gateway on top of a Lambda function. So now let's actually debug this and see what is being sent to our Lambda function. So I'm going to do print event, and then I'm going to deploy this, and we are going to invoke now our Lambda function again from our API gateway. So we're going to run a new test, which still says hello from Lambda, but this time we are printing the events. So if we go to the CloudWatch logs we should be able to find it. So let's go into monitoring and then look at CloudWatch logs. We're going to find the latest log stream, this one. And here we have our log. And we can see here that this was the printed event that was received from API Gateway. So some information you have in here, for example, the resource which is slash, the path slash, the method which is GET, and then you get headers and then you get query string parameters and so on. So a lot of information is passed on by the API gateway to our Lambda function. And our Lambda function can use this information to forge a response and send it back to the API gateway. So now we can go ahead and actually create a new resource. So this time we're going to have the resource by doing this and the resource name is going to be houses. So let's create this resource. And now we have the /houses path that I just opened. And in /houses, I'm going to create a method. It's going to be a GET again for Lambda function of proxy integration. And I need to create my Lambda function. So let's do this quickly, I'm going to copy this and then create a function. And it's not root yet, it's houses yet now. The runtime is still going to be Python. And let's create this function. Yet again, I'm going to just copy this code. And so instead of hello from Lambda, we're going to change the message to be hello from, and then something with houses. So my function is now created. We're going to copy this and it's going to be hello from my pretty house. Okay, we're going to deploy this. So now we have deployed the function. I'm going to copy the function ARN and paste it in here. And create this method. And so now we have /houses that has the GET method. I can test this. So let's test it and click on Test. And as you can see, I get a 200 hello from my pretty house. And so far it's pretty cool. We have the root, GET and we have the houses, GET, which invoke two different Lambda functions. But we want to be able to access this from a web browser, not just testing it from the API Gateway UI. So let's click on Deploy API, and we need to select a stage. So it's going to be a new stage, and the name is dev, we'll have a look at it later. Let's deploy this. And now that we've deployed this API, there's an invoke URL. So I'm going to copy this URL and then I'm going to paste it in my web browser. And as you can see when I go to /dev, it says hello from Lambda. So this is just Firefox doing a pretty print but you get hello from Lambda. And if I go to /houses then I get hello from my pretty house. So this API has two Lambda functions replying to me. And if I do something wrong, if I do /wrong then I'm getting error message such as message missing authentication token. So here we go. We have deployed our API to API Gateway and this is pretty cool because, well, we have two Lambda functions behind the scenes actually replying to it. And that's it for our basics role on API Gateway. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon API Gateway and Generative AI Applications

All right. So we've talked about API gateway in a general sense about how it works for multiple applications or any application really. But how does it pertain specifically to generative AI applications. Let's go there. So there are many ways API gateway might show up around your AI application in AWS. One would be a front for feedback collection. So we've talked about this a few times. The idea that you want to collect feedback from the human users of your system, because a lot of times, how good a generative AI system is is kind of subjective. So you need some sort of a mechanism for humans to tell you, was this good or not? And well, that has to talk to the internet and have an API somewhere. And that's where the API gateway might come in as the sort of front end to that human feedback collection mechanism for gathering data on whether your app is good or not. And of course, it can be a front for your models as well. You can't just call bedrock directly from some external application. It's gonna have to go through something. That something is probably API gateway. You can also use API gateway usage plans to manage the traffic to your underlying models. So based on your model capacity, you know how much traffic you can handle based on your current quotas and also your client requirements. You can figure out how much is the expected amount of traffic. So you could do things like throttle clients if they're giving you too much data. Maybe it's a bot, you know. So throttling it like 10 to 50 requests per second might be a reasonable thing to set up. You can also set up burst capacity 2 to 3 times is a reasonable starting point there. You can also use it for response filtering. So you know we talked about guardrails and token level redaction. Maybe eight API gateway is your last line of defense there. You can also implement retry strategies. So if your model is timing out and you want to retry it and see if it comes back to life, well you can manage that logic in the API gateway as well. It can also be a mechanism for token limit management. So if you want to make sure that the prompts coming into your system aren't, you know, gigabytes in length, you can use the API gateway to enforce those limits. You can set up a request validator together with the appropriate JSON schema definition to enforce constraints like that. Also, it can be used for implementing routing logic with request transformation. So, you know, maybe the API gateway can start the process of figuring out which model to route a request to if it has the necessary information to do so at that layer. And it can also be used to validate the required fields that are coming into your system, of course. So if your model expects a certain set of inputs or the larger application around your model does. This is a place where you can validate that right up front.

---

### Lecture: AWS AppConfig

So now let's talk about AWS AppConfig. So the idea is that when you configure your applications, it is very common for you to actually ship the configuration alongside your app, and sometimes you can modularize the configuration by using environmental variables. But what if instead you want it to be having the configuration outside of your app? For this, you could use AppConfig, which allows you to configure, validate and deploy dynamic configurations into your applications. So you can change this configuration and your application will change independently of you deploying any new code to your application. So you don't need to restart your application, everything works dynamically. So the beautiful thing about it is that, for example, you could use feature flags. What is a feature flag? Well say your application comes with a new feature but for now you want to disable it, so you just deploy your application, and in AppConfig you say the feature is off or false. And then when your application's been deployed and you're ready to test it out, you can just change the feature flag in your AppConfig. Your application will pick it up and automatically this new feature will be enabled. On top of it, you can pretty much dynamically change any kind of configuration, so you can fine tune your application performance and so on. You can, even for example, if you had IP block list or allow list, you can modify them in real time in AppConfig again, without changing your application code. So it's very useful for apps that you run on EC2 instances, Lambda, ECS, EKS, and so on. On top of it, if you have a configuration change for example, let's go back to our feature flag, you don't want to release the feature to all of your instances at once. You may want to gradually deploy this change to see if you have any issues, and if so, get a rollback. So that's possible with AppConfig as well. So AppConfig has a few config sources. It could be the parameter store, it could be the SSM documents, it could be your SRO buckets or somewhere else. And then your EC2 instances are, and, of course, the application running on them are going to regularly pull for configuration changes and then pull them. And for example, when we switch change the configuration, automatically we're going to be monitoring with CloudWatch if there is anything going wrong. If so, let's trigger an alarm, and this alarm will trigger a rollback of your configuration. On top of it to make sure that you're not actually distributing a configuration that is wrong. You can validate it either using a JSON Schema, which is going to check whether or not the config adheres to some specific types and so on, or a Lambda function. This is when you want to have code and this code is going to check the parameters in a more complex way. And that's it, that's AppConfig. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Dynamic FM Selection with AppConfig

So what is app.config have to do with generative AI? Well, a lot. It turns out. So. A very common problem in generative AI applications is that you have new models coming out all the time, and you want to try them out. So how do I switch between different underlying foundation models without actually pushing out new code in the process? Well, if you want to use App.config to store what model you're using, this might be a way to do it. So you can use feature flags and configuration profiles in App.config to specify which model you want to use. So as models come and go as they do, you can just change that in one spot and have that picked up right away without redeploying things. You could store that configuration profile. By the way, in S3, App.config is integrated with S3. So one potential approach would just be to have a file in S3 that specifies which model you want to use. Point App.config edit. And that becomes a way of changing your model dynamically without pushing out new code. And it can not only be used for rolling out new models, it can also be used for things like a B, testing or rolling back models that you don't like. And there are other tools for doing this as well, like SageMaker and bedrock. Evaluations can do all that as well. CloudWatch evidently was a way of doing that too for a B tests at least, although CloudWatch evidently is being deprecated by AWS. Modern usage I would probably look at bedrock evaluations, but in the context of the exam, Appconfig is a legitimate choice for a dynamic foundation model selection coupled with S3.

---

### Lecture: AWS Step Functions

Let's do a high level overview of AWS step functions, very similar to data pipelines in concept here. Basically, it's a purpose in life is to let you design workflows throughout AWS. So as you're building a system to analyze your data and preprocess that data, step functions might be what connects all those steps together to create a larger system. It also lets you visualize these workflows very easily, as we'll see shortly, generates these nice little graphs that show you the order that things actually execute within. And it also has an advanced error handling mechanism and a retry mechanism that lives outside of the code that you're actually running within your AWS step function. So that's a good utility for being able to manage, uh, portions of your workflow that don't work. You know, you don't have to rely on the code of each step actually being able to monitor itself. AWS Step Functions can take a look at it from the outside and deal with errors when things don't do what they're supposed to do. It also maintains an audit history of all the workflows that have run, so you can go back and see what happened historically if you need to troubleshoot something, it allows you to wait an arbitrary amount of time between steps. So if you just want to play some time in between these steps and, you know, sync up with some business workflow that you have, you can do that. And the maximum execution time of a given state machine that's a given workflow is one year. So you can actually define a workflow that spans an entire year if you want to. I can't imagine a situation where you need to do that, but if you need to, it can handle very long lived processes and workflows. The syntax of how it all works really is not important. They're defined using the JSON based Amazon States language or ASL. The exam will not expect you to be able to parse or write this kind of code, or know ASL. You just need to know what it does. So as long as you know what step functions are for and some examples of what you might use it for, that's what's important for the exam. So we're going to go through a few examples of how you might use step functions in the real world. Here's an example of using it to train a machine learning model. So you can see that when we start we generate the data set. In this example, it's doing that by kicking off a lambda function. It then trains the model using SageMaker XGBoost algorithm. And when it's done, it saves that trained model from SageMaker and applies a batch transform to that model from some data set that we had at that point. It's done. So you can see here we've automated the entire process of generating our data training a machine learning model, using that data, saving that trained model, and then applying data to that trained model all in one set of steps here that are managed through step functions. We can also use it to tune a machine learning model. So in this example we're generating a training data set. And then we're going to kick off a hyperparameter tuning job in SageMaker that just tries different parameters on the machine learning model to figure out what the right set of parameters are for this given data set. When it's done, it extracts that model path, and then it saves the tuned model that it's settled on. We extract the model name of the tuned model and then use that to apply a transformation of a bunch of data in a batch format to that tuned model automatically. So again, just an example of what you might use step functions for. It's not important for the exam to understand how machine learning works, but it is important to know that step functions can automate the process of generating your data set and feeding it into a machine learning model. You can also use it, for example, to manage a batch job. So in this example we're submitting a batch job. And then we're just going to use step functions to notify us if it succeeds or fails. Very simple. So step functions don't have to be complicated. They can just be used to monitor a single job and use those features that it has to actually monitor and alert us when something succeeds or fails from a given step. So sometimes step functions just have one step, and that's really all the depth you need for AWS step functions. You just need to know that they manage workflows, and they give you a nice graphical representation of those workflows. And they can monitor whether individual steps succeed or fail, and notify you based on what happens there.

---

### Lecture: Step Function States

Let's go into a little bit more depth on AWS Step Functions, because this is a very powerful orchestration tool and it's extremely relevant to data engineering. So you can expect a lot of questions on this in the exam. First some terminology. So the workflow that you're defining in your step functions is called a state machine. That's just a fancy way of saying we have some system that defines a bunch of states that your data pipeline might be in, and it moves between those states somehow based on some criteria, right? Every step in that workflow is called a state because it's part of a state machine. Right. That's it. Just some terminology, just some words. However, there are many different types of states that you can use with AWS step functions. So it is important to know these. The most useful one is the task state. So that is a state within your step function state machine that does something right. Maybe it kicks off a lambda function. Maybe it kicks off some other AWS service to transform your data, or move it around, or load it or whatever it needs to do. Maybe it even talks to third party APIs to do something external to AWS. In any case, that's a task node. It's performing some sort of real operation on your data as you go. There's also a choice state, and this adds conditional logic through choice rules. These can be things like comparisons. You know, if my data is bigger than this amount, maybe I do something special with it. If this data contains PII or something, maybe I do something special with it. Right? So choice states are just a opportunity to apply conditional logic. There's also a wait state that can be used to delay the state machine for some specific amount of time. If you, just for whatever reason, want to give things time to catch up. Kind of a hacky way to do it, but you can bake in a time delay into your step functions as well with a wait state. There's also the parallel state, and this allows you to do separate things in parallel and separate branches of execution. So a parallel state isn't well it's kind of a blurry concept of state right. It's really saying I'm going to create many states running in parallel at this point going on so I can have different things happening at the same time once I hit a parallel state. Now there's also the map state, so this can get confusing. This is something you should probably remember. So a map is also run in parallel. But it says I'm going to run this following set of steps for each item in a data set in parallel. So this is especially relevant to data engineering because it's specifically made for operating on data. It's going to be able to work with JSON files, S3 objects, CSV files, whatever you might have, but it's going to take a set of steps and apply those to that data set in parallel. So remember a map operation will split things up into parallel processing on your data, just like Apache Spark might or anything else. And it will run in parallel without needing a separate parallel state in front of it. It's a parallel implicitly. Okay, so a little bit of confusing there. Between parallel and map states. They're parallel is used for kicking off separate branches within your state machine that can do whatever. But Map is specifically about operating on your data in a parallel way. Finally, there's paths. Succeed and fail. Pass just passes your data along to the next step. It's usually just used for debugging. Succeed and fail or where you're going to end up. So once you're done with your state machine, you'll either succeed with that state machine or fail. And that's how you kind of wrap things up. So that's step functions in a bit more detail there. Do you remember what the valid types of states are and what they do? It might come in handy.

---

### Lecture: Step Functions Circuit Breaker Pattern, and AI Integration

Something that's mentioned a couple of times in the Amazon prep materials for this exam is the circuit breaker pattern for step functions. It's not built into step functions, but it's a pattern you can use. And it sounds fancy, but it's actually pretty simple. The idea is just that we maintain a state for a service someplace, in this case in DynamoDB. And if we find that that service is currently available, then our circuit is closed. We can access that service. However, the service is unavailable if it's timing out and failing, we mark that as being unavailable, and we then open the circuit so that we don't actually try to hit that service. And you can see the diagram of what this looks like conceptually pretty close to what it looks like in step functions as well. So when we go to access some sort of a service, we first check its circuit status through a lambda function, which in turn hits DynamoDB. That keeps track of it. If that circuit is closed, we proceed to go ahead and execute that through Lambda with whatever service that it is that we're testing against. If that succeeds, then we are done. However, if it's failing, if it's timing out, then we say, oh no, something's wrong with my downstream service. I'm going to update the status to be broken. And now the next time I try to call that service, I'm going to check from Lambda. It's going to say, nope, it's broken. We're going to fail. And you know, there needs to also be some mechanism to make it marked as not failing anymore. Uh, that's kind of not in this diagram, but that's the general idea. You know, we just keep the state of a service someplace. We query that state before we try to actually use a service. And you can implement this with step functions, Lambda and DynamoDB. But there needs to be some sort of a mechanism to detect when it's functional. Again, to update that back to being a closed circuit. And this is something you can do in step functions with a very similar scenario. Why is that relevant to AI? Well, it's one potential mechanism for routing requests to a fallback model if your own model is down. So if that circuit breaker is keeping track of the status of your foundation model, then you can use this pattern to automatically try a different foundation model as a plan B, or enter some sort of degraded service mode that you define in that case. Also, another potential connection with generative AI and step functions is the react pattern. And that's not the mobile app thing, it's reasoning and acting. So it's possible to use step functions to do reasoning. And I'm not really sure why you would do that these days, because most there's plenty of foundation models that can just do this as a built in thing. But if you did want to implement this from scratch on top of a simpler model, step functions could do this. So it can do this sort of cycle here that you see where if I'm trying to do a more complex reasoning task, I can break that up into specific actions and observe what came back as a result of that action, and keep iterating on new actions and new iterations on those results until I finally get the output that I want. So that's a way of actually implementing what we call chain of thought reasoning, potentially within step functions. It can also be used for dynamic routing to specialized foundation models. So depending on what that action is maybe I might send that to a very specific foundation model or a set of tools to accomplish that. Again, there's a better ways of doing that these days. You know, a lot of models do this for you, and a lot of the Agentic AI toolkits would provide better tools for this. But you could, in theory, get step functions to do this too. Also, this can be used for orchestrating model review and approval processes. So you could use step functions to orchestrate the process of evaluating a new model that comes out. And that could be programmatically. It could be through human review, whatever it is. But step functions could define that entire process of what it takes to actually evaluate a new model and approve it before it actually gets deployed into production. So another potential use for step functions with generative AI workflows. A few more things you might find helpful with step functions and AI. First of all, you need to know there's a 256 kilobyte limit between data. You can pass between steps of a step function, and that might not be enough for your application. If that's a problem, one idea is to squirrel some data away in DynamoDB, or maybe S3 in between those steps, so you can store them in one step and retrieve them the next one. Also, there is integration with bedrock from step functions built in the invoke model and create model customization. Job APIs are both supported within step functions, and you can use that for chaining foundation model calls together, which we're going to see shortly. And you can also use that for chaining guardrails together because invoke model also includes guardrails. You can specify as part of that call to. So you can use that for chaining guardrails as well.

---

### Lecture: Lab  Prompt Chaining with Step Functions and Bedrock

All right. Just to give yourself a break from the slides here. Let's do a little demo of step functions and using this to basically create a chat API or a converse API around a model that only supports invoke models. So we can see how we can use step functions to implement prompt chaining to chain together the prompts from within a conversation into a larger context. And you might want to just consider this a demo as opposed to following along, because as you'll see, it depends on specific bedrock models. And specific bedrock models come and go pretty quickly. So odds are this isn't going to work for very long. In fact, the built in demos we're going to see doesn't even work anymore. So welcome to the world of generative AI development. All right. Let's go ahead and go to the Step Functions console here and get started. And we don't have to start from scratch. So there are helpful templates we can start from. So let's go ahead and choose a template. And if we navigate to the bedrock service we can see there is one available for bedrock right now. And that is for prompt chaining which is exactly what we want. Funny that it's almost like I planned that. Let's go ahead and click on that and say next. Now let's go ahead and use this template. But there is a catch here. So like I said this template is coded against a very specific model, a cohere model specifically that no longer exists in the bedrock marketplace. So if I were to use this template in demo mode, it wouldn't work. And because in demo mode everything is read only, I couldn't fix it either. So, um, this is going to be a more interesting demo because we're going to have to build on this, which is what you would do in the real world, right? Like you wouldn't just be using a demo, you'd be just using it as a starting point. And that's what we're going to do here. Also, this instruction to enable model access in the bedrock console is already out of date as well. Um, it's no longer necessary to explicitly subscribe to models in bedrock. You're automatically subscribed to them now. And if you do want to read more about this specific demo, there's a link here, but it's pretty straightforward. Let's take a look at what it's doing though. So basically we're starting and a prompt comes in. So we have this basically a JSON structure of prompt set. We start with. And this is going to just be a list of prompts that we want to build off of each other in, like a conversation kind of a thing. So we're going to chain these prompts together. What happens here is that we go to this choice state and it says are we out of prompts yet. Do we have more to process? As long as we do, we're going to go ahead and invoke that model with the prompt and keep on iterating on those prompts until we're done, at which point we're going to say we're done, we succeed, and we end. So pretty straightforward prompt chaining. We're just chaining our prompts together in this loop and quitting when we're done. When that counter, um, is no longer greater than zero. So let's go ahead and click on build on it. Because again the built in demo does not work. And click on Use template. And the first thing we're going to have to do is edit this template so that it actually will work with another model. So to do that we're going to have to go down to the bedrock invoke model block here in our step function. So that step is where all the model specific stuff is in this particular template. And by the way bedrock is only supported in certain regions. So if you're not in US east, 1 or 1 of the more common bigger ones, you might want to double check that bedrock actually works for you. Um, so first of all, we need to replace the model identifier. And this is going to be used not just for the step functions, but also for the IAM permissions to actually grant permission to the model that I'm using. Now command text V 14 no longer exists in bedrock. So I got to find one that does. So let's go to the console and open up bedrock in its own window. And of course you could get there any other way that you want. You could just navigate to it through the search bar or whatever works for you. And let's go ahead and look at the model catalog and try to find something comparable. So again we're looking for a model that's just taking straight in text not a chat history. So we need something simple. Uh, now Cahir unfortunately no longer has anything simple. So there's a bunch of embedding models, but the only actual text models are command R and command R plus, which expect a chat history and tool usage. And they're much more, um, much more involved than just a simple text model. So let's see if we can find something even simpler. Let's go to Amazon and let's go down to like the old, uh, Titan text G1 light. Sounds like a good one for me. So what we're going to need here is both the model ID and also the input and output format that it expects. Right. So let's go ahead and start with that model ID. We know we need that. And we're going to paste that into here where we specify the model. But let's double check arguments and output. All right. So I know that this is not the correct body format for that particular model. This would have worked with the cohere model that was made for. But the uh structure that's expected from Titan text G1 is different. It's not just a prompt inside of a body in max token. So let's see if we can figure out what that is. Fortunately, from the model catalog it should document that with inference parameters and responses. So let's take a look at that. and under invoke model request and response we can see what the actual format is. So here we can see that we have a structure with input text and then a text generation config structure. And the max token count lives under that. So let's go ahead and see if we can adapt that to what's in here. So instead of prompt it's input text. Right. And the way that's being constructed is the same. So this is kind of where the heart of some of it is. It's basically taking the previous conversation history and appending it to the current prompt coming in here. So this is where that chaining is actually happening. Now max tokens is not just sitting there in the top level, it's under text generation config. I'm just going to copy and paste this section to start from. And we'll leave the temperature and top P as the default and just specify the max token count which was 250. Right. And then we'll get rid of the old one here. And I can get rid of that extraneous comma. And. Okay, all of our warnings are gone, so this looks more like it. So we have input text the indentations wrong on that but whatever. And then text generation config with max token count. So that should be the expected input format for this particular model. Now there's also the output format we need to deal with. So if we click on over to variables we can see here that it's assuming that this is how the output is structured, which is also an incorrect assumption for this particular model. So it's not body generation zero dot text. Let's see what it really is. So under response model for invoke model, it looks like it's actually going to be under results. And then output text. So the array of results is called results. And within that we want output text. So let's change that. It's not generations it's results. And it's not text, it's output text. Let me double check that. Okay. I think I got the syntax right there. All right. So now I think this might work a little bit better. So let's go ahead and create this. And it's just telling me what roles are being created. And that should be automatically created with access to the correct model for invoke model and also for x ray tracing if we wanted as well. Let's confirm that. And our state machine has been created so now we can play with it. So let's go ahead and start execution. And we need to give it some input. Now I've provided you with some sample input in your course materials. Or you can just copy it here. But if you click on input or import rather and you find your course materials, hang on while I navigate to mine. All right. Somewhere in there you should see a prompt chaining dot JSON file. So go ahead and select that as your input. And you should see this. Basically we're going to chain these three prompts together as part of this step function. So we're going to start by saying name a random city. And it must not be fictitious and just provide the name comma and country. Then I want you to write 2 to 3 sentences describing the city, and then write a few sentences about the local casino of the city. Let's go ahead and start execution and see if it works. All right. It started successfully. And let's give it a moment to actually do something. It succeeded. Oh my gosh. We got it right on the first try I love it. All right. So now if we want to see what it actually did we can go up here to execution input and output. And there's our input and there's our output. So here's our random city. It shows Cleveland, United States, just like it specified. Just the city in the country wrote, uh, 2 to 3 sentences about the city, followed by some words about its cuisine. And apparently, if you're going to Cleveland, you want to go and order deep dish pizza, as well as thin crust varieties and maybe an Italian beef sandwich and pasta dish as well. Cool. I'm getting hungry already. All right. Oh, and craft beers. Mm. Love it. All right, so there you have it. Let's clean up our mess. But yeah, that's just a demo. Not only of state machines, but also kind of the fragility of some of these systems because models tend to come and go. And sometimes when models go, your application breaks, you need to design around that. Somehow this demo did not. So we had to go and do some extra work there. But it's good. It's a it's a teaching moment, as they say. Let's clean up our mess though. Back to step functions and state machines. And from here, if we refresh it, there it is. Let's go ahead and delete this before we forget. And we'll confirm that with delete. And there we go. So there you have it. Step functions with bedrock working together for prompt chaining.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodePipeline

Okay, so now let's talk about CodePipeline, which is a visual workflow tool that will allow you to orchestrate your CI/CD within AWS. So with CodePipeline, you can show sources such as hey, my code is in CodeCommit or we have a Docker image in ECR, or my code is in Amazon S3. Or even external tools such as Bitbucket or GitHub. Then you can move on to the build phase, which is, hey, now that we have this code, let's build it. So CodeBuild, Jenkins, CloudBees, TeamCity are all options. Then once you have the build phase, you can have the test phase. So again, testing your code. So CodeBuild or Device Farm if you have an app, for example, an iOS, an Android app, or any third-party tools you want. Then once the code is tested, you want to deploy it. So CodeDeploy, Beanstalk, CloudFormation, ECS, S3, all these options can be handled by CodePipeline. And Invoke to invoke a Lambda function or a step function. And then when you have all these building blocks, you can build stages. So each stage can have sequential actions and/or parallel actions. You can do a lot of things. Here's a very simple example. Build, test, deploy onto staging, then load testing to make sure staging is doing fine. And then once the load testing is done, maybe deploy again to production. Now, there's also a way for you to define manual approval at any stage in your pipeline, really allowing you, for example, just before deploying to prod to have someone review the results of the load testing, for example, if it was there. And make sure it says, yeah, looks good. Green light, deploy to prod. So CodePipeline really is here to orchestrate everything and it gives you a lot of flexibility thanks to all the building blocks as we'll see in the next lectures. Now, how does CodePipeline work inside? So let's assume we have a source, a build and a deploy phase. So source is CodeCommit. Build is CodeBuild, even though we haven't seen CodeBuild yet, and Deploy is CodeDeploy even though we haven't seen CodeDeploy yet. So each pipeline can create artifacts. Artifacts is whatever is created out of the pipeline and the artifacts are going to be stored in S3 buckets to be passed onto the next stage. And this is how the next stage is going to be able to do what it needs to do. So let's do a concrete example. Developer is going to push some code into CodeCommit, right? And then CodeCommit is going to be orchestrated by CodePipeline, which is going to extract all the code and create an artifact out of it and place that artifact into an S3 bucket. Now, when CodeBuild is invoked, the same artifacts that were extracted are going to be inputted directly into CodeBuild, and that's why CodeBuild doesn't need to have straight access into CodeCommit. Actually, it's CodePipeline that will be pushing the code to CodeBuild through Amazon S3. Then when CodeBuild is building the code, it's going to create some deployment artifacts. So these artifacts are going to be stored yet again in your S3 bucket by CodePipeline, and CodePipeline will push these artifacts yet again to CodeDeploy and CodeDeploy says hey, I have these artifacts, I need to deploy them. Let's go ahead and deploy them. So as you can see, these stages interact with each other through Amazon S3, and this is why we have artifacts in CodePipeline. Now, some troubleshooting for CodePipeline. So if you need to have a look at all these things, for example, you need to look at like CodePipeline action or stage execution state changes, you can use CloudWatch Events, EventBridge to have a look at them. So for example, you can create events for failed pipelines, events for cancelled stages and then receive an email notification, for example. And then if CodePipeline has a failure at a stage, you will see it visually and you can get information through the console. And if there is no way for CodePipeline to perform a specific action, for example, to invoke some code in CodeBuild or to pull the code from CodeCommit, then check the IAM service role of CodePipeline and make sure it has right IAM permissions. Also, if you need to have a look at maybe some denied API calls within your infrastructure, you can use CloudTrail, which is a service used to audit AWS API calls. So let's say for CodePipeline, it will make a lot more sense once we go to the hands on. So I will see you in the next lecture. I hope you liked it and let's get some practice.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodePipeline - Hands On - Prerequisites

So before we go into the Code pipeline hands-on,. we just need to recreate our Beanstalk application because we'll be using it in this lecture. So let's create a web server environment. The application name is my first web app, Beanstalk and then the environment is going to be this one. My first web app, Beanstalk, and this is good enough, managed platform will choose nodejs, and the latest is fine. We'll use a simple application and single instance. Just click on Next. And then we don't define a keep so we can use whatever, no options for the key pair. This is fine. We click on Next, and then we can just skip to review. And then we'll go ahead and submit this. So this is going to create a Beanstalk environment and we'll be using Code Pipeline to deploy some updates into this Beanstalk environment. Okay, so this environment is done and successfully deployed and we get this congratulations message. And I'm just going to create a second environment. So back into my environments right here, I'm going to create an environment and it is going to reach for my application. So the quickest way is to do application and then create new environments. Okay, here we go - Web server environments. And this time, the environment name is going to be prod. And then we'll just again do the exact same thing, nodeJS and then simple application next, and then skip to review and finally at the bottom, submit. And so this is going to create your two Beanstalk environments because we'll be deploying to both of them using Code Pipeline. And at the end of this section, when you're done, please don't forget to delete your environments otherwise you're going to pay some money for the running EC2 instances, okay? So that's it for this prerequisite lecture. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture for some hands-on on Code Pipeline.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodePipeline - Hands On

So now let's have a look at CodePipeline, and we're going to create a pipeline to deploy our code from GitHub to Beanstalk. And we're going to build a custom pipeline to get access to all the options. And this one is going to be called MyFirstPipeline. Let's scroll down. We're going to leave the execution mode to queued. This is perfect. We leave the default on, and then we're going to create a new service role, and this is the role name. And this service role will allow CodePipeline to do what it needs to do, so this is very important to have it created. So, no variables are needed, and under advanced settings, we leave everything for artifact store and encryption key. So, let's click on next, and here comes the source provider. So, as you can see, we have a lot of different source providers. We have CodeCommit, which is discontinued. We have Amazon ECR, Amazon S3, Bitbucket, which is a Git provider, GitHub version one and version two, Enterprise Server, GitLab, and GitLab Self-Managed. So, a lot of different integrations are possible, and I would recommend for you to use GitHub version two. So, we're going to connect directly GitHub into our repository. So, we need to have a connection, and then we return to this task. So, let's connect to GitHub, and I'll call this one MyGitHubConnection, and connect to GitHub. And then you're going to be greeted with this to authorize the AWS connector for GitHub. So please say yes, you authorize it. And now this connection is fully created. So next we need to have a GitHub app to install a new app. So, let's install this new app right now. So, you're saying to what do you want to connect to? So which part, and then what repositories? So, I put all repositories. Then you put your little codes if need be for security. And now you will have a GitHub app ID in here. So, you can connect, and now the connection to GitHub should be done. So, everything is good now, the status is available. And so now I can go back here, and I probably need to refresh this. So, let's do it again. Thank you, AWS, for being smooth. So, let's create a pipeline, and I call this one my first pipeline. We go again, press next. Source provider is going to be GitHub version two. And now I see my GitHub connection. So, it's ready to use, and now we need to choose a repository in there. So, sounds good because the repository name I have is my Node.js app. So, you just paste it in. And then what is the default branch? It's going to be the main branch. So, we're going to start deploying from this one. Next, what is the output artifact format? We use the CodePipeline default trigger. So here we need to have a trigger that starts the pipeline. And we are going to specify a filter saying for any push to the branch and the branch being, and we'll have it as main for the branch being main, then push it into CodePipeline. So, let's click on next. Build provider, we're going to skip this for now, but we'll have a look at it later. And you can see we have CodeBuild and Jenkins available. Yes, we skip this. And the deploy is where do you want to deploy this to? So, we have lots of options as you can see, but the one that is interesting to us is AWS Elastic Beanstalk. And then for the application name is the one we have just created. And we'll use right now the env environment. Let's click on next. And so, what happens is that this pipeline is going to send whatever is in our GitHub directly into our Elastic Beanstalk application on the env environment. So, let's create this pipeline and see what happens. So, one little thing you may have to do is to go under settings for your pipeline, click on the service role. And in here we have two policies. We're going to add a new one that is missing permission sometimes for Beanstalk. So, you're going to attach policy. You're going to look for Beanstalk in here. And you're just going to add administrator access Beanstalk. That's going to make it very simple just for demo purposes. This way our pipeline will be able to deploy to Beanstalk. So, make sure you add this into your code pipeline service role. And then you can go back to the tutorial. So, as you can see, things are in progress now. Don't mind this little error right now. Something I had to fix behind the scenes. But anyways, if you go into Beanstalk right now and look at your environment and open it, you see it's green. And you need to do this very quickly. And so, once this source has been pulled, we're pulling the version of index.html that has blue as the background color. So, if you go into here and you scroll down, you will see that back here, background color is blue. And so therefore, when the deploy action happens, this new version is going to be deployed into our Elastic Beanstalk environment. If I click on it, we can see that right now there is a deployment happening. So, the environment update is starting. And so automatically when it'll be done, my environment should be switched to blue. So now as you can see, my code is running a version named CodePipeline something. And if we go into Elastic Beanstalk now, the background is blue. And so, we have successfully completed our first pipeline in which we have hooked automatically a GitHub repository to a Elastic Beanstalk environment through CodePipeline. But we can do so much more. So, what we can do is that we can edit this pipeline and start adding stages. So here, as you can see, we have the source and then we have the deploy into Elastic Beanstalk. But we can add a stage and call this one deploy to prod in which we're going to deploy to our prod environment. And within this stage, we can add an action group. Remember action groups are going to be within the stages. And so, we need to choose an action provider and you have a lot of different things that are possible, but we want to use Elastic Beanstalk. So, the action is going to be deploy to prod Beanstalk. And then input artifacts, we'll choose source artifacts. Application name is the one we already have. The environment this time is going to be prod and then we click on done. So here, as you can see, we have from the source to deploy onto Elastic Beanstalk to deploy to prod. And this is our first action group, but let's say we want to deploy to prod and so therefore we want a manual approval beforehand. So, this one, I want to say manual approval because we want to check things before we deploy to prod. So, we'll have it like this. We can specify an SNS topic, a URL for review, comments and so on, but we don't need this. We click on done. And as you can see now in this stage now, we have two sequential action groups. So just remember multiple action groups can move into one stage. Okay, so we're good to go. We're done for this. And then we're going to save our pipeline and save it. So, as you can see now, we have our pipeline and now we have these two, this extra stage deploy to prod, which contains a manual approval and deploy to prod. So, how do we make it run? Well, if you've been following, you should know how to make it run. We need to make a change in the source. So, let's go in the source and then we're going to edit this file. And in here, I'm going to have the background color changed to something else. We'll have it as red. So, let's commit the change and say, changed background color to red. And we commit directly into the main branch to make things quicker and we save it. So now we have a new commit. So, if we go into our commit list right here, we have a new commit in which we have updated index HTML. And when we look at this commit, we can see that the color was changed from blue to red. So back into CodePipeline, if we have been following, the pipeline has been automatically triggered because there was a change in GitHub. So, the source was being pulled right now. And now there's a deploy happening in our first Beanstalk environment. So, if we go back into Beanstalk right here and refresh this page, as you can see now, we are in health info because there is a new deployment happening. So, let's wait for it to be over. This is done. We're okay now. So, if I go back into my domain, now we can see that it is red. So, as you can see, it was successfully deployed in my end environment. So, this is successful here, but now we are in the deploy to prod stage. And let me refresh this. As you can see now, we have a manual approval that is necessary. And until we have given this manual approval, we're not deploying to prod. So, we would review the development environment and say, well, this looks good. This is exactly what I want. So, I'm going to give my approval. So, I'm going to review it and I'm going to approve it and say, looks good in red. Okay. We submit it. Now the manual approval was approved and now my prod environment is being deployed too. So, if I go here, I go into my prod environment. As you can see right now, it is green. This is the old version of my prod environment. But now there's going to be a deployment into my environment, which is happening, which should make this go from green, which is the initial state, into red. So, let's wait for this to be done. And now we are in okay health. So, if you go again to the domain, we can see that now it is red. So, this is all very successful. So back into our pipeline, we've seen how to do a deploy to dev, a manual approval, a deploy to prod. We can look in the pipeline history on the left-hand side to see all the runs, how long they took, if they succeeded, what commit they correspond to and so on. And we've seen the basics of CodePipeline. So, I hope you liked it. This is your first CI-CD pipeline and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeBuild

So now let's talk about CodeBuild. So CodeBuild allows you to take a source of code, for example, CodeCommit, Amazon S3, Bitbucket, or GitHub. And then in that source there will be some build instructions. Now from an exam perspective, you need to know the name of that file, so it's buildspec.yml, and that file needs to live at the root of your code. I will show this what it means in the hands-on. Or you can also insert these instructions manually in the console, but the best practice is use buildspec.yml and this is what the exam will test you on. So once the application is built, the output logs can be stored into Amazon S3 and CloudWatch Logs for later analysis. You can use CloudWatch Metrics to look at the build statistics, EventBridge to detect failed builds and trigger notifications, CloudWatch Alarms in case you have too many failures for example. And then the Build Projects themselves can be, and this is a bit confusing, defined either within CodeBuild of course or also within CodePipeline. But CodePipeline can also invoke an existing CodeBuild Build Project. So if we look at CodeBuild, what can it test? Well, if you have a Java, Ruby, Python, Go, Node.js, Android, .NET Core, PHP application, then there is a pre-built image for you to run your test in CodeBuild. And if you want to have any other environment, well you can extend a Docker image and by extending it you can test for whatever language you want. But again, this is up to you to support your own environment. So how does CodeBuild works? Well, we have our code and in this example is in CodeCommit. So we have our source code, a bunch of files, and then there is this very important file that lives at the top of your repo, which is buildspec.yml. Now, CodeBuild is going to fetch this code and then CodeBuild itself will have to have a container. So as I said, there is going to be a build environment, so Java, Go, and so on. And this container is going to load all the source code and the buildspec.yml and is going to run all the instructions that are inserted into this buildspec.yml file. Now to build this container, CodeBuild will pull a Docker image. So either it's prepackaged by AWS for the environments I just told you before, or you provide your own Docker image to run whatever code you need. Okay, so CodeBuild will run all the instructions from buildspec.yml, and sometimes they can be quite lengthy, so there is a feature in CodeBuild to be able to cache a bunch of files in S3 Bucket if you want to reuse some files from build to build. Okay, this is an optimization, but there's a way for you to cache some files. This is optional though. Then all the logs are going to be into CloudWatch Logs and Amazon S3 if you enable it. And then once CodeBuild is done to build your code or even test your code, it can produce some artifacts and these artifacts will be extracted out of the container, put into an S3 bucket, and this is where you can find your final outputs of CodeBuild. So the buildspec.yml file is super important. This is what it looks like. We'll have a look at it obviously in this course, but so some very important things, that the buildspec.yml file must be at the root of your code. So at the very, very top of your code directory. Environment allows you to define some environmental variables for the execution of buildspec.yml. So you have variables that can be plaintext or you can pull them directly from the SSM Parameter Store, or you can pull secrets directly from Secrets Manager. This would allow you, for example, to get a password or for database and so on directly from some places that of course you wouldn't want to store these passwords in plaintext into a file like buildspec.yml. Then phases, which is actually going to define what CodeBuild is going to be doing. So it's a bunch of installs, for example, to say, hey, what comments do we wanna do to install some pre-necessary packages, and so on. Pre_build, which is the comments to execute just before the build. Build, the actual build commands, very important. Then we have post_build, which are the finishing touches. For example, once it's built, maybe create a good zip output and so on. And then the artifacts, so which files at the Docker container should be extracted and sent into Amazon S3, there's also going to be encrypted. And finally there's this cache block to say which files, usually dependencies, are going to be cached in Amazon S3 for speeding up the future builds. So that's it for CodeBuild, I hope you liked it, and let's go into the next lecture for some practice.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeBuild - Hands On - Part 1

Okay, so now let's go into CodeBuild and we wanna test that Congratulations is still there in our project. And so we're going to do a CodeBuild, not to build, but to test that the Congratulations message always appears when we deploy our application. So let's go into CodeBuild and under Build Project, let's create a new project. And I'll call it MyFirstBuild, and then we can look at Description, we don't need Build Badge, we don't need, and the Tags we don't need, so we're good. Now for the Source, we need to add a source. As you can see, we have several options, Amazon S3, CodeCommit, GitHub, Bitbucket, GitHub Enterprise, GitLab, and GitLab Self-Managed. So let's choose GitHub, and then we're going to connect using OAuth. And then you click on Connect to GitHub. So this is starting a new window, and this is different from the one we had with Code Pipeline as far as I can tell, but we're going to authorize it as CodeSuite. Again, I need to enter my authentication code, and I'm good to go. Then I press Confirm to connect CodeBuild to GitHub. And now the two are connected. And so therefore I'm able to look for nodejs app. Nope, nodejs app, and here we go. Okay, so here, do we need to enter a pull request, branch or no, this is optional, we're going to build directly from the main branch. Okay, next, so, rebuild every time a code change is pushed to this repository. Yes, so this is good. And then it's going to be a Single Build and we're going to have it for PUSH and that's about it. No Pull Request, no Release, but you can say whatever you want. For example, you want to build or to test anytime there's a pull request created, that could be a very valid use case of CodeBuild, right? But right now we just wanna build based on PUSH, okay? And then we can have more conditions if you wanted to around these things, but we don't need to right now. Okay, we just have PUSH as the Filter Group and then we need to use a Managed Image. So we have two options, Amazon Linux, or Ubuntu. And I'm going to use Ubuntu. Runtime is going to be Standard. The image, I just take the latest here, so standard 7.0, and then we always use the latest image for this runtime version, perfect. Now we're going to create a new Service Role, and I'll call this one CodeBuildDemoServiceRole. So this is perfect. And then under Additional Configuration, we have some interesting configuration. So Timeout is how long you want the build to do, by default, it's one hour of Timeout, but you can change it for example, to 10 minutes if you wanted to keep things under control. Then importantly, if you scroll down, under VPC, you could select a specific VPC to do CodeBuild in. And this would allow you to access your databases or anything running in your VPC. Now we don't do this, but this is an important option. You select the Compute Size. So here, 3 gigabyte memory and 2 vCPU. We could add Environment Variable names and so on. We don't need this right now. So here importantly, we have the Buildspec Configuration. So here we're going to use Buildspec.yaml to insert the build commands, and we're going to use the Buildspec files Sorry, right here, and it's going to be Buildspec.yaml. So we'll need to make sure to have this file in the Source Code Root Directory. Okay, we scroll down, do we want Artifacts? Do we want to send stuff into Amazon S3 as we build them? Right now we don't need to because we don't build anything, but this could be a valid option if you were building some stuff. Out of CodeBuild, you can send stuff into CloudWatch logs or Amazon S3. Now we're good, let's create our build project. And of course what we're going to do is that we're going to start a build. And as you can see now the build is starting, it's in progress and we're going to see how CodeBuild is working. So CodeBuild is going to be pulling our GitHub repository as it is. And let's see what happens. So we have a failure and that's expected. Why? Well, let's have a look at it and it says, well, there is no yaml file that exists that helps you get the Buildspec. So yes, of course we haven't uploaded the Buildspec.yaml file in this directory just yet. But that's fine, we're going do this in the next lecture. But for now we're good. We have set up our first CodeBuild pulling from GitHub, so we're ready to go into the next phase of this hands-on.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeBuild - Hands On - Part 2

So now let's go ahead and fix that error by creating a buildspec.yaml file. So in my GitHub repository I'm going to add a file and we can create a new file directly from GitHub, which is very convenient and the file is buildspec.yaml. And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to paste the content of the file. So in your CodeBuild you have a buildspec.yaml file. Just take it all, copy and paste it. So let's have a look at it. So we have version 0.2, we have install, and then we say, we want nodejs latest. It's going to use the latest runtime of Node.js. And then I'm going to echo a lot of things to show you where we are in our build phase. So the first command is installing something. This is in the installs phase. Then in the pre_build phase, we're going to say we are in the pre_build phase. Then in build, we're gonna have multiple commands again. So we are in the build block, we will run some test, and here, we have a grep command and it says, grep - Fq "Congratulations" index.html. So this is going to return successfully if the words congratulations can be found in index.html. So this is actually our test, this is our test phase right here. And so if this test passes, then the build is going to be successful, else is going to fail. So as long as congratulations is in the index.html file, which is going to test that this text is still in our webpage. Okay, and then post build_commands. We are in the post_build phase. So we're good to go. Let's commit these changes. And I say, created buildspec.yaml. This is pretty much the same as the commit message. We commit directly into the main branch and now we have a new commit being made. So this is great. And now if we go into CodeBuild and look at it, as you can see, automatically a new build was being triggered. This is because there is a web hook between GitHub and CodeBuild. And so as you can see, GitHub Hook shot said that as soon as a push happened into my GitHub repository, then a build was being triggered on CodeBuild. So I can just click on this build now and wait for it to happen, and let's look at the output right after. Okay, so my build status is now succeeded and if I go to phase details, I can see that all these things are successful. And so we can see all the phases. So submitted, queued, provisioning, download_source, install, pre_build, build, post_build, upload_artifacts, finalizing, and completed. So it's a lot of different phases that you can look at and do things on. But we can have a look at the build logs themselves to better understand what happens. So if you click on View entire Log, this is going to take you directly into the CloudWatch log console where you can do all the log lines for your logs. I'm going to just visualize it in here because I think it looks a little bit nice. So we have CodeBuild on demand and then we download source. Their source is going to be downloaded directly from GitHub. So this is where GitHub is being downloaded. And then we have here, echo installing Node.js version 20. So this is the latest version right now that there is on this image. So we're good. Then we go into the yaml file and we say that, "Okay, there are four phases found in this yaml file. We have INSTALL 1 command, PRE_BUILD 1 command, BUILD 3 commands, POST_BUILD 1 command. Okay, so we're good, we're scrolling down. Next we go into the phase install and we echo the command installing something. So we get installing something. Then we are on echo, we are in the pre_build phase. So we are now in the pre_build phase, of course. Then we have the actual build phase. So we have the first echo, the second echo, and then we have this command to do the grep on congratulations on index.html. And this is passing, this is where we get phase complete build succeeded. And then we go into the post_build phase and then everything is good and we are in successful. So super important to look at it from this UI or from CloudWatch in case there are any issues. Okay, so we've done this, but now we want to integrate this into CodePipeline. So first, what I'm going to do is I'm going to my Build project. I'm going to edit it. And here on the Primary source webhook events, I'm going to just remove it. So right now, this was being built every time we pushed things to GitHub, but now we're going to have CodePipeline trigger CodeBuild itself. So we don't need that Primary source webhook event anymore. So I'm just going to update the project from here. So now if you push to your GitHub repo, nothing is going to happen to CodeBuild. But if we go into CodePipeline now and look at our pipeline, we're going to click on MyFirstPipeline and we're going to edit it. So here, we're going to change the way it's flowing. So we have the source, but instead of deploying directly into Dev, we want to first test it. So I'm going to have a stage name named TestCode. We're going to add it. And then in the action group, I'm going to choose an action name. So CodeBuildTest, and the action provider is going to be CodeBuild. The region is going to be the same. Input artifact's going to be SourceArtifact. The project name is MyFirstBuild. So this is the CodeBuild project we have created. We don't need to do anything with environmental variables. We need to have a single build. And then I will call this one OutputOfTest for the output artifacts. Let's click on Done and let's click on Done. So now what's going to happen is that our source is first going to go into this CodeBuild and then going to go into Deploy, and then finally DeployToProd. Okay, so this is good because now we're going to test our pipeline. Okay, so our pipeline is all good right now, so we are going to run it and see what happens. So let's go into our file, my-nodejs-app, and then we go under index.html. We're going to edit this file. And instead of congratulations as the text which is here, I'm going to say, horrible. Here we go. And we commit the change. So now we say, updated from congratulations to horrible, because we don't want to have the test passed, so we need to remove congratulations. So we're going to commit this directly into the main branch and save this, which should trigger a pipeline run. So let's wait for GitHub and this UI to be integrated, and I may have to refresh this to see it. Okay, so this already succeeded, right, just now. And now we are in the TestCode. And so as you can see, CodeBuild is now running, and if I go into CodeBuild and Build History, for example, up, as you can see, my build is in progress. And the submitter now wasn't GitHub, it was CodePipeline. So CodePipeline is the submitter of this build, and now the build is in progress and we go through the same type of setup as we had before. But now under the phase details, we're going to see that as soon as we test our project, things should fail. As you can see now, my build status is failed. And if we look at it, yes, from the pre_build phase to the build phase, there was an error, and this error was when running this command grep-Fq Congratulations. So this is good because if we go now into CodePipeline, we can see that this has failed. And so therefore, this has never gone into the next phase. Okay, you see the last one was seven minutes ago, so it never went into the next phase. And so our changes have not been deployed into either prod or let me... This is end. Yes. So Dev, if I refresh it, as you can see, it still says congratulations and not horrible as I edited it. But we can edit our file again to fix things and see if that works. So instead of horrible, we're going to have congratulations, CodeBuild. And we still have the congratulations work so this is good, but we've added CodeBuild. So let's save this and commit. And now yet again, as you can see, the source is in progress. So we have a new pipeline execution. So this is the whole power of CI/CD you see right here where everything is automated. We just update the code and the pipeline runs itself, and then automatically the test will run themselves and so on. So we are now in the test phase under CodeBuild. And if you click on View details... Oops, if you click on View details right here, you can also see the logs from here. And now CodeBuild is going to pass. So let's wait a little bit. Okay, so this is successful. So let's go here and we're going to see that now if I refresh this page, we're still... Let's going to build history. Here we go. Yes, so it succeeded. Perfect. So everything was good now. And so in our pipeline, now we are in the deploy phase. And now these changes are going to be deployed into our Beanstalk environments. So let's click on here to go into Elastic Beanstalk, and this is my end environment. And now if I refresh, I get congratulations, CodeBuild. And you can see now my change was pushed into Dev, and now I would need to have a manual approval to go into prod. But that's perfect. We've seen how CodeBuild works and is integrated with co-pipeline. You're starting to get a feeling for CI/CD I hope now. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeDeploy

So now let's talk about AWS CodeDeploy. So as the name indicates, it is a deployment service that will automate application deployment. What does that mean? Well, that means you have a version one of an application running and somehow, you want to upgrade it to version two. Now where can we deploy version one and version two? Well, these application versions can be deployed either to EC2 instances, on-premises servers or Lambda functions or ECS services so three different kinds of targets because EC2 instances and on-premises servers have the same methodology. On top of it, CodeDeploy can allow you to update an application but also rollback. So in case your deployment is not working as expected, it is failing, or there's an alarm that gets triggered, then we can automatically initiate a rollback. That makes it a very safe automated deployment. On top of it, we can control how fast we want to deploy our application. We will see this later on, but we can say one instance at a time or all at a time or HalfAtATime or blue/green. Finally, to control how CodeDeploy works, there's a file named appspec.yml that can help define how the deployment will happen. So now, let's talk about the EC2/on-premises platform. So this allows you to deploy to EC2 instances and on-premises servers, your application, and your code. And you can perform two kind of deployments, either in-place deployments or blue/green deployments. We'll see them both to understand the difference. And to work, we must first deploy the CodeDeploy agent onto the target instances because the agent is the thing that will be performing the updates on the instances. We can define the deployment speed so, as I said, we can have a gradual deployment. For example, we can do AllAtOnce, which will update all the instances at once, but will give us the most amount of downtime because we will be down. HalfAtATime, for example, to reduce capacity by 50% or OneAtATime, which is going to be the slowest because we take down one instance at a time and update it, but of course, it's going to give us the lowest availability impact because only one instance will be down at a time or you can define your own custom deployment speed if you wanted to. So let's have a look at how, for example, in-place deployment works for HalfAtATime setting. So here we have the v1 running on four EC2 instances. Because we're in a HalfAtATime setting in in-place deployment, two instances are going to be taken down for maintenance. So the agent will stop the application on two instances which then are going to be upgraded again by the agent to version two. And once it is done, then the other half is going to be taken down for install and then upgrade it to version two. And so this is the process of in-place deployment for HalfAtATime setting. What about blue/green? Well, blue/green is the idea that you have, for example, an Application Load Balancer pointing to version one and all your instances are in Auto Scaling group. What's going to happen is that we're going to create a new Auto Scaling group so this can be done either manually or automatically by CodeDeploy. And CodeDeploy is going to create as many EC2 instances in this new Auto Scaling group. So we have v1 and v2 now running in parallel and the load balancer through some process is going to be pointing now to the v2 Auto Scaling group and the v1 will be taken down. So this is a simplified version, but at least you see the process, and it's called blue/green because new instances are taken up and the old ones are terminated. So this CodeDeploy agent I've been telling you about, it must be installed on the EC2 instances as a prerequisite. So we have the EC2 instance, and we install the CodeDeploy agent. Now you can install it directly using some Linux commands to install any software or if you wanted to have some kind of automation. If your EC2 instances are managed using Systems Manager, then you can automate the install of CodeDeploy agent using Systems Manager. Now this EC2 instance with the CodeDeploy agent will need sufficient IAM permissions to access Amazon S3. Why? Well, because in Amazon S3 will be stored the application revision. So when we want to update from version one to version two, then the CodeDeploy agent with the proper IAM permissions attached to the EC2 instance will download the application revision from the S3 bucket. And now you know enough for CodeDeploy and EC2 instances. Now let's see how CodeDeploy works with the Lambda platform. So CodeDeploy can help you automate traffic shift for Lambda aliases. And the idea is that you can shift from v1 to v2 under an PROD alias. I'll show you this in a second. Now this feature is fully integrated within the SAM framework that you will see soon. And so that allows us to just use the SAM framework and internally use CodeDeploy. So how does that work for the traffic-shifting function? Well, say we have a PROD alias, okay? And we have v1 that we've deployed before and v2 that we've deployed after, and we wanna shift the traffic between the v1 version and the v2 version under the PROD alias. So the way it works is that CodeDeploy is going to make this X vary until X equals 100%. So at first, X will be zero. So that means that all the PROD alias points to the v1 function, and then X will gradually increase until he reaches 100% so that all the traffic on the PROD alias is redirecting to the v2 function. Now we have several strategies to make X evolve. So we have linear where we grow the traffic every N minutes until 100%. So in this example, LambdaLinear10PercentEvery3Minutes, that means that every three minutes, 10% will be added. So we'll have 10 and then 20 and then 30% after 9 minutes, and so on until we reach 100%. And so you have different strategies. For example, 10PercentEvery10Minutes and so on. So this is linear. Then we have canary, which is to have a small amount of traffic on the v2 function and then ramp up to 100%. So here we have LambdaCanary10Percent5Minutes. So that means that for five minutes, the new v2 function is going to receive 10% of the traffic. And then, if everything goes well, then all of a sudden, we switch to 100% of the traffic. That's why it's called canary. So we have, for example, the 10Percent5Minutes or the 10Percent30Minutes strategy. And finally, AllAtOnce, which immediately jumps from v1 to v2 but we don't have the time to test it if it's working. Now, CodeDeploy for the ECS platform is actually similar. So we can automate the deployment of a new ECS task definition. And this only works for blue/green deployments. So let's take an example. So we have an Application Load Balancer, and it's related to a target group where our ECS tasks are running under an ECS cluster. And we'll use CodeDeploy to do a blue/green deployment. So very similarly to EC2 instances, there will be a new target group with the v2 version of our application. And this v2 version comes from the new ECS task definition that will be run with the same capacity as before. And that can deploy is going to affect the load balancer. And so it's going to redirect the traffic from the v1 target group, the blue target group into the v2 target group, the green target group. And what's going to happen here is that we're going to shift traffic again between the first one and the second one with similar strategies as before. So we have the linear strategy, and this is just like before we gradually increase until we reach 100%. We have the cannery strategy to test a small amount of traffic on the new target group, and then all of a sudden, we switch everything to the new target group or we have the AllAtOnce to immediately switch from the blue to the green target group. So that's it for an overview of CodeDeploy. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeDeploy - Hands On

So let's get started with CodeDeploy, but first we need to go into IAM to create some roles. So, in the IAM console go underneath roles and create a role. This role's going to be for an AWS service and the service we're going to be looking for is CodeDeploy. As you can see, I have three options. I can create CodeDeploy, or for Lambda, or for ECS. But because we're doing a CodeDeploy use case right now, we'll just create a CodeDeploy EC2 service role. So let's go ahead, create this, click on next and we'll call this one, CodeDeployServiceRoleForEC2. Okay, so now we are good with this role and the second role we need to create is a role for the EC2 instance that we'll deploy to. So let's create a role, and this one is for an EC2 instance. So it's a role for it, and we're going to have a permission that allows S3 read access. So if I just type S3, I should be good to go. The idea is that if you remember the EC2 instance will be the one pulling the code from your S3 bucket. And so, therefore it means AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess. And that policy is a very simple JSON, which allows Get* and List* on any objects. So let's click on next, and I call this one, EC2RoleForCodeDeploy. And let's create this role. Okay, so now that the roles are created, we need to go back into CodeDeploy and get started. So first we need to create an application. So I call this one, DemoApplication. And for compute platform we have three options. We have EC2, we have Lambda, and we have Amazon ECS. So we'll choose EC2/on-premises and let's create our application. Now, to create application we need to create a deployment group. And to have a deployment group it should be better to start an EC2 instance. So let's open the EC2 console, and I'm going to go to my instances. I'm going to launch an instance and I'll call this one, DemoWebServer. And I scroll down. We have Amazon Linux, we have a t2 micro, we don't need a key pair. And then for networking settings, we're going to create a security group that allows SSH traffic and also allows HTTP traffic. This is where our web server is going to be started. Storage is good and we don't need any EC2 user data. So let's go ahead and launch this instance. And as you can see, I have not tagged my instance yet. I've just launched it so that I will show you why tags are helpful later on. Now the next steps is to SSH into our instance. So now that it is running, I'm going to click on connect and then EC2 instance, EC2 user and click on connect. So now I am SSH'ed into my instance. And if it doesn't work for you maybe it's because the port 22 wasn't open. And now, the next step is to actually install the CodeDeploy agents. So for this, let's go into our code under CodeDeploy, under cicd, we have the commands and we do updates. So we update the operating system. So we're gonna say, okay, no updates to do. Then we install ruby, which is necessary for the CodeDeploy agents. So we'll say yes and we're good. Next we're going to download the agent. And in case this doesn't work, please replace the region by what you have. But this link should work regardless of the region. So the install script has now been downloaded. And I'm going to make it executable with a chmod command. Okay, so let's clear the screen. We have the install in green, so that means that it's executable. And we're just going to execute the install in sudo mode. So let's do this. Now my agent is being installed. And finally, to make sure that the agent has indeed started we can just run a sudo service CodeDeploy agent status. And as you can see, the CodeDeploy agent is running and it has a process ID. So now that our EC2 instance is ready, let's go into CodeDeploy and create our first deployment group. So, create a deployment group, and this one is going to be called, Developmentinstances. And this will be comprised of all my development instances. So how do I tell CodeDeploy that one instance is development and the other one is production? Well, it's using tags. So if I go into my instance itself, what I can do is that I can click on tags and I can manage the tags, add a new tag. And I can create a new tag called, Environment. And this one is going to be, Development. And we will pass that value also to CodeDeploy, so that it knows that my EC2 instance is a development instance. So back into CodeDeploy, we need to enter a service role, which is created from before. So that's perfect. Now for deployment type, we have In-place or Blue/green. And it turns out that we've seen both in the previous lecture. But for this demo we're going to use In-place. And for the environment configuration we have multiple options. Are we using Auto Scaling groups? No, we're not in this case, but we could. Are we using Amazon EC2 instances? Yes, we are. And are we using on-premises instances? No, we are not. But the process is similar. We would need to install the CodeDeploy agent onto these on-premises instances and then tag them correctly. But for now, let's just choose Amazon EC2 instances, and we need to specify a tag group. So, the tag group is going to be Environment and the value is going to be Development. And right now there is no hint at this. So, let's just refresh this page and I'm going to rename this my DevelopmentGroup and Amazon EC2 instances. And this time I will pick up the Environment, yes. and I will pick up the value, Development. And as you can see it says 1 unique matched instances have appeared. So that means that my EC2 instance from here has been picked up in this deployment group. So we are good. Do we want to install the agent with Systems Manager? No, we don't need to. Well, because we already have installed the agent ourselves, so never, is good enough. But of course, if we wanted to automate the installation of it, we could use this automation right here, using Systems Manager. But for now, never. Now for deployment settings, we have CodeDeployDefault.AllAtOnce. So this is going to update all my instances at once but we have different strategies. We have one at a time, we have half at a time, or we can create our own deployment configuration. If we wanted to have more fine grain control. If we were using a load balancer, for example, with an Auto Scaling group, we could enable this integration but right now we don't. So let's disable it and let's create our deployment group. So we are now ready to deploy something to our EC2 instances. So let's create a deployment and this is going to apply to my development group. And my application is stored in Amazon S3. So that is not true yet, but we need to go into Amazon S3 and actually put our application there. So I'm gonna go into my S3 console, I'm going to create a bucket and make sure you choose the same region as the region of CodeDeploy. So from it's EU-west-1 Ireland. So I'm going to say the bucket name is Stephane-code-deploy-demo, scroll all the way down and then create this bucket. And now we need to upload some data into our buckets. So what data? Well, the application itself. So I've created a zip file called SampleApp_linux.zip and this one we'll upload. But I've also unzipped it, so we can have a look at what is going on. So let's have a look first at the index.html file. And this is a simple HTML document that contains what we will display on our website after doing the CodeDeploy deployment. But in CodeDeploy the most important file is the appspec.yml file, which contains the instructions of CodeDeploy should do to actually deploy our distribution or application. So as we can see there's a files handle here saying that this index, that HTML file should be copied into var/www/html, which is where the html files are displayed for Apache web servers. Then we have different hooks, and as we can see in here we have a BeforeInstall to install dependencies. Then we have a start server. So after the independencies are installed let's start server. And finally, before we want to do any update we need to stop the application. So we have a stop server script and each script is actually very simple, the script right here, so install dependencies just installs htpd. Start server starts the htpd server and stop server will stop the htpd server if it exists. Okay, so we are good to go. So now let's go ahead and back into Amazon S3. I'm going to upload my zip file. So here I found my SampleApp_Linux.zip. I'm good to go. Let's upload it. And this was successful. So now this file has been uploaded and that's the one I'm going to be using in my CodeDeploy deployments. So here what I need is the full S3 URL to it. So let's copy the S3 URI right here and paste it. Okay? So it's a zip file as we can see, but we have other types of compression mechanism if you want. Okay, so now we're good to go. We are not going to touch the deployment description we're not going to talk about failures, we're not going to be talking about content options or overrides. We're just going to go and create this deployment. So now the deployment has been successfully created and my progress of the lifecycle events is going to appear right here. So let's click on view events. And it's going to show you all the events that are going to happen for my ES2 instance, as you can see we're going to have ApplicationStop, DownloadBundle, BeforeInstall, Install, AfterInstall, ApplicationStart and ValidateService. So for this, the CodeDeploy agent must pick up the fact that there is a new deployment. And my deployment just failed, and I know why. It's because I forgot to attach the instance role to my EC2 instance. So you may have noticed this while I was doing the video. Anyway, just go to action and then security, and then modify IAM role, and we'll choose the IAM role called EC2RoleForCodeDeploy. And this of course allows my EC2 instance to actually get the files from Amazon S3. So let's try again to run a deployment. So for this, let's go into this one. I'm going to do retry deployments, and now it's started and hopefully now my EC2 instance should be able to get the file from S3, and therefore the deployment should happen. So let's view the events now. And as we can see now, my deployment has worked. So we have ApplicationStops, then DownloadBundle, BeforeInstall, Install, AfterInstall, ApplicationStart and ValidateService. And to verify that everything has been working, Let's go to ESC2 instance. I'm going to copy the public IP and type http: and the IP address. And we have a congratulations. This application was deployed using AWS CodeDeploy. So that's it. We've performed our first deployment on CodeDeploy. Of course, you could update the application, update the S3 bundle zip, and then redeploy it. And it will be again, redeployed to your EC2 instances based on your configurations. So to summarize, we've looked at deployments, we've looked at the applications. We can look at deployment configurations where you can see that you can deploy on EC2, on Lambda, on ECS, as well. And you can create a deployment configuration for the platform you want. So if you wanted to customize, for example, the number of healthy hosts as a percentage with a number for controlling how CodeDeploy deploys your application. And also, you can register on-premises instances here, so that CodeDeploy can deploy the application on-premises as well. Also, please do not forget to terminate the EC2 instance you've created. All right, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: MLFlow for LLM Experimentation

Something you might see mentioned on the exam is ML flow. That is a open source platform for machine learning and AI workflows. So we've seen a few different ways of doing this already. SageMaker pipelines, for example, does very much the same thing. But MLflow is popular and you might not want to stop using it. So if you already are familiar with MLflow, you don't have to stop using it with SageMaker because it's fully integrated with SageMaker AI. It offers observability, evaluations, tracking, tracing, and also an API gateway, as well as managing your models and the deployment of those models for you. So it's a very similar to SageMaker itself in scope really, and it is fully integrated into Amazon SageMaker AI. So if you're familiar with the ML flow tools, you can use that on top of SageMaker as sort of an alternative interface, if you will. So it is a fully managed service. You don't have to worry about the actual resources for MLflow itself. As you can see from this diagram on the right, for its compute and storage requirements, it's actually getting that from the SageMaker service directly under the hood. You don't have to think about that. And for any output for any actual artifacts that it produces, those will go into your S3 buckets as a customer. So it's all tightly integrated into the computing and storage capabilities of AWS itself. You don't have to manage those resources. It does integrate with SageMaker model development, management, deployment and tracking features under the hood. So it just makes it look like MLflow instead of SageMaker. Those integration points include SageMaker studio, SageMaker Model Registry, SageMaker AI, inference, IAM. It's also integrated with that for, you know, permissions and whatnot. It integrates with CloudTrail to keep track of what it's doing, and it integrates with EventBridge for managing events as part of its workflows. So MLflow just an open source platform for ML and AI workflows, and it is fully integrated into SageMaker. That's the main takeaway for the exam.

---

### Lecture: AWS AppSync and GenAI

Real quick, let's talk about AWS Appsync, which sounds like a very general purpose thing, but in fact it's highly specific. So it's Appsync GraphQL in particular. And this is a mechanism for connecting your apps and services to data and events, which sounds very general, but it's centered around GraphQL, which is a graph query language. And as you might imagine, anything graph related probably comes from a social media company because they care about these graphs of users and the connections connecting those users together. We're talking about graphs in the data structure sense here, not charts and graphs. So a graph means like nodes with connections between them and complicated connections potentially. So it was developed by Facebook, unsurprisingly. And its purpose in life is to retrieve data from multiple data sources, potentially, and return that as a graph structure. So it is fully serverless, and it also supports JavaScript and TypeScript, if those are your languages of choice for custom business logic. That business logic, by the way, lives in something called a resolver that sits between your actual GraphQL schema, the data model, and the data source. So your resolver is where that business logic happens and it can do any number of things. So for example, it might be talking to a lambda function that in turn talks to a foundation model. So if you need to make your foundation model output look like a graph, that might be a way of doing it. It seems like a very specific thing that you need to do, but just keep it in the back of your head that that's one way to do it. And specifically under the hood, Appsync uses something called Apache Velocity Template Language or VTL mapping. And actually to translate those GraphQL requests to your underlying data source. And in this case, that data source could be a lambda function on top of your foundation model. So that's Appsync GraphQL. And what it's all about should be all you need to know.

---

### Lecture: AWS Outposts

Okay, so now let's talk about an exciting development which is called AWS Outposts. What is hybrid cloud? Businesses that keep an on-premise infrastructure alongside a cloud infrastructure are called hybrid cloud. And when we have that, we have two ways of dealing with IT systems. We have one for the cloud of AWS, for example using the console of AWS, the CLI and the APIs from AWS, but also we have another one that is dedicated to on-premises infrastructure. And so, that means two different types of skillsets, two different types of API, and that may be complicated. So it was said, "Okay, we do recognize that some companies will run a hybrid cloud therefore, let's create Outpost." And Outpost our server racks that offer the same AWS infrastructure, services, API and tools to build your own application on-premises just like in the cloud. So what this means is that they will come and set up and manage Outpost racks which are servers within your on premises infrastructure. And then these servers come preloaded with the (indistinct) services but you can benefit them from on-premises. So as we can see now on your corporate data center you will have your Outpost racks directly set up by AWS. And this allows you to extend the (indistinct) services directly onto your on-premises data centers which is I think revolutionary. But a difference between an EC2 instance running on the cloud and an EC2 instance running in your own data center is that now you are responsible for their security, the physical security of the rack itself because that rack is within your own data center. The benefits from using Outposts are many, first of all, you get low latency access to on-premise the system, you get local data processing so the data may actually never leave your on-premise system and never go to the cloud, data residency, so again, it lives within your own data centers. It's easy for example, to start the migration from on-premise is to Outpost and then when you're ready from Outpost to the cloud. It's a fully managed service. So AWS will manage the service for you. And with Outpost for now, you can launch a lot of services such as Amazon EC2, Amazon EBS, Amazon S3 Amazon EKS, Amazon ECS, Amazon RDS, and Amazon EMR. So it's really a cool way to extend the cloud directly onto your own our infrastructure on-premises system, and this is revolutionary. So this may come up in the exam. I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Outposts and GenAI

Why are we talking about AWS outposts in this course? Well, there are some relevant connections to generative AI, mainly that there are a lot of laws out there in the world surrounding AI and how the data for it is being treated and handled. So it is especially relevant to this particular world. So different jurisdictions will have different data compliance laws. And to comply with that, maybe you need to go so far as to having an outpost installed. So you make sure that that data is not going anywhere outside of your own organization, outside of your walls. Also, for highly sensitive information, maybe it's classified or something if you need to keep it all in-house. AWS outpost is one way of doing that, even if you're using that for AI applications. So sometimes it's kind of an overlooked thing, you know, when you're sending data off to use a big AI model in the cloud, you got to make sure that the data you're sending across the wire is okay to send across the wire. Often it's not. And you really do need an on premises solution to satisfy the security requirements that you have. So that might be one way of doing it. If you do need an outpost for what you're doing, make sure you have sufficient compute and storage capacity for your foundation model inference stages. So you want to take a look at your on premises data volume and requirements, and make sure you have enough capacity for your foundation models because they can eat a lot of compute space. A local caching and all the other usual tricks for optimization apply here. So you might want to also use caching just to minimize the movement of data. So if you are still using external models, maybe your outpost can be a way to do some of that processing locally and be a little bit more judicious about what you do send outside of the premises through local caching.

---

### Lecture: AWS Wavelength

Now let's talk about AWS WaveLengths. So, WaveLength Zones are infrastructure deployments, embedded within the telecommunications providers' datacenters at the edge of 5G networks. The idea is that whenever you see 5G in your questions, this is most likely going to be WaveLength, but let's go a little bit deeper in this. So the idea is that you're able to deploy some AWS services directly to the edge on the 5G networks. For example, you can deploy easy two instances, EBS volumes, even VPC to a WaveLength Zone. So, say you have a, for example a telecom carrier, has a 5G network and you're going to have a WaveLength Zone and through a carrier gateway, you're able to actually deploy an easy two instance on that Zone. But that zone belongs to the 5G network itself, so that whenever a user on the 5G for a mobile device accesses your WaveLength Zone, they have really, really low latency because the application is really deployed at the edge. So, this is the whole idea behind WaveLength is to give ultra-low latency to applications through 5G networks. The traffic, for example, in this example, never leaves the Communication Service Provider, the CSP network. It actually never reaches AWS, but in case you do need to have a secure connection to AWS, we can. So, the wavelength zone is connected to the parent region. In case, for example, your easy two instances in your WaveLength Zone needs to access a database. For example, RDS or DynamoDB, within your main parents, AWS Region. There is no additional charges or service agreements for using WaveLength. And the use cases for this are multiple. This is to have Smart Cities, ML-assisted diagnostics, ConnectedVehicles, Interactive Live Video Streams, AR and VR, Real-time Gaming. Anything that requires really low latency and to be very, very close at the edge to your users. And this is a use case enabled by 5G. So, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Wavelength and GenAI

So why are we talking about AWS wavelength here? Well, there's some specific things that you might want to think about in the context of this exam. One is just the high level thing that it's for edge deployments for mobile devices on 5G networks. So if you have a requirement for super fast response times from a mobile app in particular, maybe wavelength is part of the answer. Also, it is a mechanism for secure routing between the cloud and on premises, potentially. And if you have a mobile app, this might be a very quick way of accessing foundation models. So like I said, you know, if you have a specific requirement for really, really good latency on mobile apps in particular, wavelength might be part of the answer. And a specific consideration for gen AI is that we often have both low latency, lighter work that needs to be done, as well as heavier lifting that needs to be done, you know, within the foundation model itself. So one thing you can think about if you are using wavelength is how do I distribute that traffic between the wavelength zones at the edge and the parent region that based on that workload. So generally speaking, lower latency, lighter work should be done at the edge on wavelength, whereas the heavier lifting should be done at the parent region. Okay. So that's all you need to know about wavelength.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SQS

So let's talk about SQS. And at the core of SQS is a queue because SQS is a simple queuing service. So we have an SQS queue and it's going to contain messages and to contain messages while something needs to send messages into our SQS queue and whatever sends a message into our SQS queue is called a producer. So it's possible for us to have one producer, but also have more. You can have multiple producers sending many messages into an SQS queue, and the message could be whatever you want. For example, it could be process this order or process this video. Whatever message you create goes into the queue. Then something needs to process the messages from the queue and receive them. And it's called consumers. So consumers will pull the messages from the queue. So that means that they will ask the queue, do you have any message for me? And the queue says, yes, here it is. And the consumer will pull these messages and get some information. And then with that message, it will process it and then delete it back from the queue. And you may have multiple consumers consuming messages from an SQS queue. So queuing service is here to be a buffer to decouple between your producers and your consumers. Now, SQS is a complicated service and we'll see it in depth, but the very first offering is called Amazon SQS for standard queues. And SQS, historically on AWS, it is the oldest offering. It was one of the first services on AWS. It's over 10 years old, so it's quite, quite set in stone about how it works. It's a fully managed service and it will be used to decouple applications. So anytime you see application decoupling in your exam, think about Amazon SQS. Now, why is SQS so special? Well, we get an unlimited throughput. That means you can send as many messages per second as you want, and the queue can have as many messages as you want as well. So there's no limit on throughput and no limit in the number of messages in the queue. Now each message is short-lived. What does that mean? That means that by default, the message will stay in the queue for four days. And the maximum amount of time that the message can be in a queue is 14 days. That means that as soon as you send a message to a queue, it has to be read by a consumer and deleted from the queue after being processed within that retention period. Otherwise it will be lost. Then we have low latency. So SQS means that that means that whenever you send a message or read a message from SQS, you will get a response very quickly, less than 10 milliseconds on publish and receive. And the messages in SQS, they have to be small, they have to be less than 1,024 kilobytes per message is sent. Now, SQS is a queuing service, as you can see, high throughput, high volume and so on. And so it is possible to have duplicates messages. That means that, for example, sometimes a message will be delivered twice. And so this is why it's called at least once delivery. And if you go ahead with writing an application, you need to take that into account. It can also have out of the order messages, which means it's best effort ordering. And we'll see there is another type of offering from SQS that can deal with that limitation. But we'll see this later on in this section. So let's go back to our message producers. So messages are sent into SQS by producers. And how do they, how does it happen? Well, the producers will send the messages to SQS using an SDK, software development kits, and the API to send a message to SQS is called SendMessage, very simple. Now, the message, it will be written, it will be persisted into the SQS queue until a consumer reads that message and deletes it, which signifies that the message has been processed. We know the retention. And so what's the use case for producing messages? For example, you want to process an order, for example, packet and then ship it to the sender. And so you wanna do this in your own time. So you will send a message into the SQS queue with maybe some information such as the order id, the customer id, and any attributes you may want, for example, the address and so on. And then your consumer, that is an application you write, will have to deal with that message itself. So again, to confirm, SQS standard held has unlimited throughputs. So we've seen about producers, very simple. Now let's look about consumers. So consumers, they are applications that you have to write with some code. And these applications can be running on EC2 instances, so your virtual servers on AWS, but also they can be running on your own on-premises servers if you wanted to, or we haven't seen it yet. But they can also be running on Lambda functions on AWS Lambda. We'll see in this course it is a serverless compute type of service. Well, this means that you can just read messages directly from Lambda as well. We'll see this later on this course. Do not worry. So going back to our simple use case about EC2 instances, our queue has a consumer and the consumer pulls for SQS for messages. And that means that the consumer will ask the queue, do you have messages from me? And the consumer may receive up to 10 messages at a time. So if there are messages in the SQS queue, it will receive a valid response saying, here are the messages that are waiting for you. Then the consumer, it's your code, has a responsibility to process these messages. For example, insert some orders into an RDS database. So you will go ahead and for each order, you will insert it into your RDS database, something that you have to write obviously with your code. And then because these messages have been processed, because they have been received and inserted into an Amazon RDS database, your consumer will go ahead and delete these messages from the queue using the delete message API. And this will guarantee that no other consumer will be able to see these messages, and therefore the message processing is complete. So now we can scale this up. We can have multiple consumers at a time. So SQS queue can have multiple consumers that will receive and process these messages in parallel. So here we are three on EC2 instances. And so each consumer will receive a different set of messages by calling the poll function. And so if somehow a message is not processed fast enough by consumer, it will be received by other consumers. And so this is why we have at least once delivery, and this is also why we have best effort message ordering. Now, as I said, when the consumers are done with the messages, they will have to delete them, otherwise other consumers will see these messages. And so what that means is that with SQS gueues, if we need to increase the throughputs because we have more messages, then we can add consumers and do horizontal scaling to improve the throughput of processing. And so if you remember what we said, this is a perfect use case for using SQS with your auto scaling groups or ASG. So what does that mean? Well, that means that your consumers will be running on EC2 instances inside of an auto scaling group, and they will be pulling for messages from the SQS queue. But now your auto scaling group has to be scaling on some kind of metric. And a metric that is available to us is the queue length. It's called approximate number of messages. It is a CloudWatch metric that's available on any SQS queue. And we could set up an alarm such as whenever the queue length go over a certain level, then please set up a CloudWatch alarm. And this alarm should increase the capacity of my auto scaling group by X amount. And this will guarantee that the more messages you have in your SQS queue, maybe because there's a surge of orders on your websites, the more easy two instances will be provided by your auto scaling group and you will accordingly process these messages at a higher throughput. So this is a very common integration that you will see in the exam. Now, SQS, again, the use case is to decouple between applications. So application tiers. So for example, let's take an example of an application that processes videos. We could have just one big application that call that's called the front end that will take the request and whenever a video needs to be processed, it will do the processing and then insert that into an S3 buckets. But the problem is that processing may be very, very long to do and it may just slow down your websites if you do this in the front end tier. So instead, you can decouple your application tier and say, wait a minute, the request of processing a file and the actual processing of a file can happen in two different applications. And therefore whenever you take a request to process a file, you will send a message into an SQS queue. Now when you do the request to process that file will be in the SQS queue, and you can create a second processing tier called the backend processing application that will be in its own auto scaling group to receive these messages, process these videos, and insert them into industry buckets. So as we can see here with this architecture, we can scale the front end accordingly and we can scale the backend accordingly as well, but independently. And because the SQS queue has unlimited throughput and it has unlimited number of messages in terms of the queue, then you are really safe. And this is a robust and scalable type of architecture. And also for your front end, you can use the optimal type of EC2 instances or architecture for your front end and for the backend, maybe if you're doing some video processing, you can use some EC2 instances that have a GPU, a graphical processing unit because you know that these type of instances will be optimal for doing this kind of workload. So this is the kind of architecture that will come up in the exam and that you're expected to know. And this is an amazing and tremendous use case for SQS queues. Finally, SQS security. So we have encryption in flight by sending and producing messages using the HTTPS API. We could add at-rest encryption using KMS keys. And if we wanted to, we can do client side encryption, but that means that the client has to perform the encryption and the decryption itself. It's not something that's supported by SQS out of the box. For access controls, IAM policies are going to be able to regulate access to the SQS API, but we also have SQS access policies, which are similar to S3 bucket policies, and they're very helpful when you want to do cross account access to SQS queue or when you want to allow other services such as SNS that we'll see very soon, or Amazon S3 to write to an SQS queue, for example, with S3 events. So that's it for SQS for an overview. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture for some practice.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SQS - Hands On

So let's practice Amazon SQS. So we are going to go into the SQS console and then create a queue. Now as we can see, we have two types of queue we can set up in SQS. We have the standard queue and the FIFO queue. And I'm going to use standard. And the name is going to be "DemoQueue." We'll see FIFO later on. For configuration, all these things we're going to see in future lectures, so visibility, timeout, delivery delay, the wait time, the retention period. We're going to use four days. And the max size is going to be 256 kilobytes, which is a max allowed in SQS. For encryption, we have several encryption options so we can disable encryption for our queue altogether, but by default we enable it with an Amazon SQS key. It's called SSC SQS type of encryption, which is similar to what we have in Amazon S3 with SSC S3. So that's one option for server side encryption. The other one is to use KMS. And this is where we have to choose the customer master key. So we can choose the default CMK of AWS called the alias/aws/sqs. And then we can define a data key reuse period. That could be five minutes, for example. This is to limit the number of API calls made into KMS. But this is not very important. So let's keep the encryption as Amazon SQS key SSC-SQS. All right, next we have an access policy. And this access policy can be defined using these prompts right here. So we can say, "Hey, who can access this queue?" Well, only the queue owner can send messages, or maybe I wanna specify a list of accounts, users, and roles. And then who can receive, again, is it just me, the key owner? Or specified accounts, users and roles. And this will generate JSON document out of it. And this JSON document, as you can see, looks very similar to what we had in Amazon S3 with Amazon S3 bucket policy. So this is a resource policy for SQS and it works very, very similarly. Now for the redrive and the dead-later queue, we'll see this later on. So right now we're good. Let's go ahead and create our queue. And now the queue is successfully created, so we can go ahead and send and receive messages from it. So we get a lot of different panels in this UI, but what we want to be doing is to go to the top right hand side and click on Send and Receive Messages. So here is a facility for us to send messages, and then in the bottom two receive them. So we can see right now in the queue, we have zero messages available. But if I enter "hello world!" in the message body and then send the message, as you can see, the message is sent, is ready to be received. Now we have a messages available, one. And so in here, as soon as I click on Poll for Messages, the messages will appear. So let's have a look. I click on Poll for Messages. And yes, we did receive that message right here. As we can see, we have a message ID. And if you want to look at the content of the message, I click on the message details and I can have some information. So there's a lot of metadata around that message. For example, the hash of the message, who sent it, how many times we received. So just one time right now because this is the first time we process this message. The size in bytes. And if we go and want to receive the body itself, we can see that whatever I sent before, "hello world," has ended up right here in the message that I just read. If we created attributes for the message, there was a message attributes panel that we didn't look at, we could create key values and read them from here as well. So very simple, what you would expect when you send a message and then read it, you get the exact same message. But we have decoupled because a producer has sent some information and a consumer has received that information. Now we can see that the message has been received twice because we didn't process it in enough time. So after 30 seconds, the the message went back into the queue and we received it again. So if I poll from messages, now the message receive count is three. So it has been read yet again another time. So to be done with this message because say we've processed this "hello world" message, I'm going to click on it, and then I'm going to click on Delete. And by deleting the message from the queue, we have signaled to the SQS queue that the message has been successfully processed, and therefore we have zero messages available in the queue. And if we poll again, we will not receive the same message again because we have deleted it. So you start seeing the power of queues. We could go ahead and send many times different messages, "hello world" and so on, and you can just play with it. And this is how you would set message attributes, but this is out of scope for the exam. And here you would receive these messages and you can receive many messages at times. So if we send "hello world!" we'll send that message again. And "hello world 2" for example, and send that message. And "hello world 3." Whatever you want really in that message. As we can see, as soon as I refresh this window, we can see that the number of messages available is three. And so if I poll for messages, I will get three messages available in here to be processed. And again, you can take them all and delete them to signal to SQS that they have been processed. So fairly easy. But you've seen the power of producers and consumers. Now, back in the queue, just a few options as well we can see. So we can edit this queue to edit all the configurations that we've seen from before. Or you can purge the queue. This will delete all the messages in the queue. And so to delete all the messages, you just need to type "purge," and it will go ahead and remove everything, which is very helpful when you do developments, but I don't think you should do this in production. And then you get some information around monitoring, for example here, which gives you some information around how many messages are in the queue, what's the approximate age of the oldest message, which could be another way to scale your SQS queue if you have an auto-scaling group reading from it and so on. And finally, access policy, which is who can access the queue and how? Encryption, which is the service side encryption we defined for our SQS queue. So for example, we're using SSC SQS right now as our encryption scheme, but we can edit it. And finally, letter queue redrive status, which is relevant if you set up a dead-letter queue. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Amplify

So now let's talk about AWS Amplify and it's a complicated service, but at its core I want you to think of it as a web and mobile application development tool. So this Amplify will basically allow you to integrate a lot of the stack of AWS into one place to build your web and mobile applications. So you're a developer, and you know you wanna do a lot of things. You wanna first create backends. So you're going to use the Amplify CLI to create an Amplify Backend. And this backend is going to internally use a lot of resources from AWS that we know. Amazon S3 for data storage, Amazon Cognito for identity, AppSync for APIs, API Gateway for APIs as well, StageMaker for machine learning, Lex for text detection, Lambda for functions data service, DynamoDB for data and so on. And so the idea is that thanks to Amplify, we have one place to configure authentication, storage, API will be REST API or GraphQL API, CI/CD, PubSub, Analytics, AI/ML predictions, monitoring, and so on. Then you connect your code. It could be from anywhere from GitHub, from CodeCommit on AWS or Bitbucket, GitLab, or you can upload your code directly. And so you would go ahead you integrate all these backend services directly from within Amplify. Then you add the Amplify Frontend Libraries to connect to your Amplify Backend. And so you have Frontend Libraries for web applications, mobile applications, as well as many, many frameworks. And finally, when you're ready, you're going to deploy using the Amplify Console to Amplify itself and Amazon CloudFront for your web or mobile application to be available. Now they may seem like a lot but I want you to think as Amplify as the Elastic Beanstalk for web and mobile applications. It's just a high level overview, but you need to see that it allows you to integrate all these things of AWS into one place, to have a one stop shop for developers to create web and mobile applications. All right, that's it for this overview, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EventBridge

So now let's talk about Amazon EventBridge, and Amazon EventBridge used to be formally known as CloudWatch Events so you will see EventBridge in the exam, but just so you know, if you come from old AWS experience, then it used to be named the CloudWatch Events. So with EventBridge, you can do a lot of things. For example, we can schedule cron jobs in the Cloud, so we can schedule scripts. For example, we say, "Hey, every hour please trigger a Lambda function," and that Lambda function will run a script. So the events are generated every hour, hence the name Amazon EventBridge, but not just a schedule like every hour, it can also react to an event pattern. So there are event rules that can react to a service doing something. For example, you can react to the event of IAM root user sign in in the console. So when that happens, maybe you want to send a message into an SNS topic and receive an email notification, so that if anyone is using the root account, then you will receive an email, which may be a good security feature for your accounts. Also, for example, you have different destinations, you can trigger Lambda functions, send SNS and SQS messages, and so on, I will show you this all in a second. So EventBridge sits in the middle and we have all the sources that can send events into Amazon EventBridge. So for example, EC2 instances when they start, when they're stop, when they're terminated, and so on. Code Build, for example, if you have a build that fails or S3, whenever there's an event, for example, when an object is uploaded, or Trusted Advisor when you have a new finding of security in your accounts or as a good combo, you can combine EventBridge and CloudTrail and actually intercept any API call made within your AWS accounts, which is huge. Also, as I said, you can have a schedule or a cron, so you can say every four hours or every Monday at 8:00 am, the first Monday of the month, this is something you can do as well. Then these events get sent into Amazon EventBridge and you can set up a filter. For example, you say, "Hey, I only want these events for a specific bucket," for Amazon is free, for example. Then EventBridge is going to generate adjacent document that represents the details about your events. So which instance, for example, gets started, whether its ID, and so on. A lot of information, the time, the IP, and so on. So once this is done, then this JSON document, this event, can be sent into so many kind of different destinations, allowing you to do really awesome integrations. For example, you can schedule and trigger a Lambda function, you can schedule a batch in AWS Batch, you can launch an ECS task for Amazon ECS, you can send a message to SQS, to SNS, or even to a Kinesis Data Stream, you can, for example, start a Step Function, you can start a CI/CD Pipeline with CodePipeline or a build with CodeBuild so you don't actually know all these things, of course, these are different AWS services, but I'm just giving you an overview what you can do and you can also, for example, start an SSM automation or a specific EC2 action, such as starting or stopping or restarting an EC2 instance. So you can see the possibilities are endless and it really depends on what is your use case. So Amazon EventBridge is what we call the default event bus, which is what we just saw, which represents services from AWS that send their events into the default event bus, but Amazon EventBridge has more capability. There is something called the partner event bus and this is AWS that has integrated with partners, most likely they are going to be software as a service partners and they are going to send their events directly into your partner event bus. So if you're using, for example, Zendesk, Datadog, Auth0, or others, you need to check the partner list. Then there's a chance that they can send their events directly into a specified partner event bus and so you can react to changes happening outside of AWS directly in your accounts. Okay, and finally, there is a custom event bus so you can create your own event buses and then your own applications can send their own events into a custom event bus and therefore, you have the same capability of sending these events to different destinations thanks to the EventBridge rules. Also, you can access event buses, cross accounts, using resource based policies as we'll see very soon. You can also archive events so all of them or just a subset event to a filter and by archiving the events, you can set it to be either indefinite retention or a set period for retention, okay? What you can do with these is that you can replay these archived events. For example, say there is a bug in your Lambda function and you want to fix it, so you fixed it and then you want to retest the event, replay it, then you can replay these archived events, which is super handy for debugging, super handy for troubleshooting, and for fixing production as well. Now, EventBridge receives a lot of events from different places and so therefore, you need to understand what the events are going to look like and remember, these events are in this adjacent format we just saw. So therefore, there is a Schema Registry and the capability is that EventBridge is going to analyze the events in your bus and then it's going to infer the schema and the schema out of the Schema Registry is going to allow you to generate code for your application that will know in advance how the data is structured in the event bus. For example, this is an example here for a specific CodePipeline in action. There's a schema and you can download the code directly using the Orange button and this will know directly how to infer the schema and structure the data out of your event bus. Also, the schemas can be versioned so you can over time iterates between the schemas of your application, of course. Now, we have resource based policies for EventBridge, what does that mean? That means that you can manage permissions for a specific event bus. For example, you can say that a specific event bus can be allowed or denied other events from other regions or accounts and the use case for it, for example, would be to have a central events bus within your AWS organization, so a set of accounts and then all these events are going to be aggregated, so how does that work? Well, we have a central event bus with a specific account and we're going to add a specific resource based policy, allowing other accounts to send events to it and therefore, this other account, for example, will be able to do a put events and send events directly into the central event bus. So that's it, we've seen EventBridge left to right, you know everything about it. So remember, you can react to events happening within your accounts, thanks to the default event bus, but also partner events and also your own events with custom buses, you have the Schema Registry capability, and then you have resource based policies, which allow you to have a cross accounts, for example, capability for event buses. Okay, that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon EventBridge - Hands On

Okay, so let's have a look at Amazon EventBridge and see what this service is about. So we have lots of options. We have the EventBridge rules, the pipes to connect event sources, the schedule to invoke a target on a regular schedule and the schema registry to organize your schema. So lots of things to look at, but first, let's go deep into the main thing of EventBridge, which are rules. So rules are a way for you to react to events happening in your account. For example, EC2InstanceStateChangeDemo. So this rule is going to be triggered whenever there is an event that happens in your account, which is that an EC2 instance state changes. And so for this we're going to have a rule type of rule with an event pattern. Click on next and then we're going to react to AWS events. And then this event is going to follow a pattern form. And here we can look for services and choose the service. We can choose EC2, and then the instance type called Instance State-change Notification. So here, as you can see, for event source, you have a lot of options. So either AWS services or EventBridge partners and we'll have a look at those in a second. And for the type of service, you have all of them pretty much. And so for each service, you will have an event type and again, they can be described in the documentation, for example. So here we want to have a look at whenever an EC2 instance state changes. What does that mean? Well, we can select the state and, for example, we want to be notified whenever an instance is either shutting down or is terminated because, for example, say that we think that this is a problem in our account when this happens, or we wanna be at least be aware of it. So now this EventBridge rule is going to be triggered every time this happens. And then we click on next. We need to select a target. So what happens when this is triggered? Well, a target could be, for example, that we want to select an SNS topic and send a notification to a topic. But you can see you have lots and lots and lots of options around what you can do for targets of EventBridge rules. For example, you can stop an instance, terminate an instance, start an ECS task, trigger another function, send a message to SNS or SQS, and so on. So we'll choose SNS and we'll say, okay, we want to send it into a topic. So you would have to go into SNS and create a topic. I'll do this very quickly. Demotopic. And then we're going to just create it. Now back here, I can refresh this and choose my demotopic. Perfect. And if this topic was hooked to an email as a subscription, then we would receive an email every time an EC2 instance state changes. So we'll click on next, next. And here we go, we have created our first EventBridge rule. So that's extremely powerful as you can see. The other type of rule we can create is a schedule, for example, run every hour. And so you click on continue in EventBridge Scheduler. And actually this takes us to a new UI. So before we were in events, in buses, now we are in Scheduler. And here we can set up something to happen every hour, for example, okay, you want to have a recurring schedule and you want it to be every one hour. You can do rate every one hour, then something will happen. So we can select a flexible time window, click on next, and then you choose what happens. So every one hour, for example, you can invoke a Lambda function, for example, to do a cleanup of something on your account or to send a message to SQS to trigger an automation or whatever you want. As you can see, you have a lot of different options or you can even choose any API you want for any service, which is incredible. So I'm not gonna go ahead with it, but this is how you would set up a schedule, a recurring schedule, or a one-time schedule if you wanted to have something run only once. Okay, so now we have event buses. So by default we have an event bus called default, which is the main event bus of your account. But if you want to have different rules for different event buses, you can click on event buses and you can actually create an event bus. You specify the name of it, you specify encryption. And then this will be a way for you to have rules specifically for that event bus. And the goal of it is to have separation, for example, of security, to have a special event bus, for example, for targets, and events that may be super important to you. You can replay events in Amazon EventBridge as well in order for you to have a look and do some debugging if you need to. Okay, other things you can do is to have a look at the partner event sources. So on top of having events from AWS within your account for any type of events that can happen for specific services, you can also have specific partners that will trigger events in your account. For example, you can set up Auth0 integration and for example, when the user signs up on Auth0, it can send an event directly into Amazon EventBridge. And from there you can run any type of rules and automation you want. So the idea is that this becomes a bridge, hence the name EventBridge, between many SaaS software and service you may use online and your AWS infrastructure without you writing any type of Glue code, like code to link these things together, which is amazing. And finally, well, you can also send the rules to specific API destinations to send it outside of AWS, for example, to invoke a specific bit of architecture that's outside of your account if you need to. It could be an external API that belongs to you or to, for example, a SaaS that you need to have integration with. So EventBridge is super powerful. And finally you have the schema registry for you to have a look at all the different types of event schemas in AWS. For example, we can look at the EC2 instance state. Let's see if we find it. No, we don't find it, it's okay. But you can look at any of these events and it will tell you the type of things you can expect in the JSON of the event and the type for each of the things. So if it's a string and so on, or an array of string, a date-time and so on. And out of it, you can download code bindings for any of these programming languages. And that means that you can automatically develop applications that use events in EventBridge directly without you setting up the schema or the code for the schema. And you can get started with Java, Python, TypeScript and Go. So all of it is super helpful. EventBridge is a super helpful service. As a general rule, remember how to use rules for sure and how to use schedules for sure. All right, that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SNS

Now let's talk about Amazon SNS. So what if this time you want to send one message and have many, many different receivers? So you could have a direct integration where for example a buying service application could send an email notification, then send a message to a fraud service send a message to a shipping service and maybe even send a message into an SQS Queue. This is cumbersome because every time you have to add a new receiving service. You need to create and write that integration. Instead, what you may want to do is called a Pub/Sub or Publish-subscribe. The idea is that the buying service will send a message into an SNS topic which is publishing a message into a topic. And that topic will have many subscribers. And each of the subscriber will be able to receive that message from the SNS topic and have it for their own. And so this is another type of pattern called the Pub/Sub pattern. So in Amazon SNS, the event producer only sends messages to one specific SNS topic. And the event receivers or the subscriptions, they want to listen to the SNS topic notifications. And so therefore each subscriber in your SNS topic will get all the messages sent to the topic except if you're using a feature to filter messages and it is possible as well. So how many subscribers can you get per topic? Well you can have up to 12,000,000 plus subscriptions per topic, so quite a lot. And the number can change over time. It will not update this slide. It's just to give you a overview of how many subscribers you can get. And in your account, you can get up to 100,000 topics and you can increase that limit as well. And this can change, but again, just to give you an idea of what the limit may be, but you're never tested on limits themselves for SNS. So for SNS, you're going to publish your subscribers and what can they be? Well you can directly send emails from SNS. You can send SMS and mobile notifications. You can also send data directly into specified HTTP or HTTP(S) endpoints, but SNS also has integrations with specific AWS services, such as SQS, to send your message directly into a Queue, to Lambda, to have a function do some code after the message is received, or to Kinesis Data Firehose to send data into, for example, as Amazons free or Redshift. On top of it, SNS receives data from a lot of AWS services. So they directly send it into SNS, so it could be CloudWatch Alarms, Auto Scaling Group notifications, CloudFormation state changes, Budgets S3 buckets, DMS, Lambda, DynamoDB, RDS events, and so on. So you don't have to remember them. But as soon as there is some sort of notification that happens within AWS, services will send a notification into a specified SNS topic. Now, SNS, how does that work? to publish a message into SNS, you use the topic, publish SDK. And so you create a topic. Then you create subscriptions or many one or many subscriptions you publish to the SNS topic and that's it. All the subscribers will automatically retrieve that message. Or there is something called direct publish for mobile apps, SDK, and you need to create a platform application, a platform endpoint and you publish into the platform endpoint, and it works in terms of subscribers for Google GCM, Apple APNS, or Amazon ADM, which are different ways for your mobile application to receive notifications. In terms of security, Amazon SNS has the same kind of security as SQS, so it has In-flight encryption by defaults At-rest encryption using KMS keys, and Client-side encryption if your client wants to send some encrypted message into SNS, but again, it's up to your client responsibility to do the encryption and the decryption. In terms of of access controls, IAM policies are going to be at the center of security because all the SNS APIs will be regulated by IAM policies. And you can define SNS access policies which are very similar to S3 bucket policies, and they're very helpful when you want to have cross account access to SNS topics or to allow other services such as your S3 events to write into your SNS topics. So that's it, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SNS - Hands On

So, let's practice using SNS. So, we're going to go into the Simple Notification Service and create our first topic. So I'll just call this MyFirstTopic, and then click on Next step. So we have two options for creating a topic. It can either be a standard topic, and this what we'll be creating, which is best-effort message ordering, at least once message delivery, highest throughput in terms of publishes per second, and SQS, Lambda, HTTPS, SMS, email, and mobile application endpoints can read from this SNS topic. Or we've seen that we could create an SNS FIFO topic. And this is to get strictly preserved message ordering, exactly once message delivery, high throughput up to 300 publishes per second, and the only thing that can subscribe to a FIFO SNS topic is an SQS queue. In this case, if we have FIFO, we can see that the name of topic has to end with .fifo. So we'll just go with standard, and then we'll use MyFirstTopic as the name. We can encrypt the messages in our topic. We can set up an access policy. And the access policy is going to define who and what can write to the SNS topic. So this is similar to an S3 bucket policy, and this is similar to also an SQS access queue policy. Okay? The idea is that with this access policy, for example, we could set up an S3 bucket to write events into an SNS topic, and then the SNS topic could send data to SQS, and so on. So the access policy will be needed to allow the S3 bucket to write to our SNS topic. So for now, I'll just use basic, because we don't need to do anything fancy, and then we are not going to set up any of these. And then we'll just click on Create topic. So MyFirstTopic is created, and as we can see right now, we have zero subscriptions. So we need to create our first subscription. So I'm going to create one, and we need to choose the protocol. So it could be Kinesis Data Firehose, SQS Lambda, Email, Email-JSON, HTTP, HTTPS, and SMS, okay? And you have to remember those going into the exam. But to make it very simple, we're first going to use Email, and actually only going to use Email in this hands-on. Now we need to use an endpoint on the email address. I will use stephanetheteacher@mailinator.com, and this is just a service for me to get a temporary email. So if I type stephanetheteacher, and press on GO, then I'm getting a public inbox, and they will receive emails from this address, okay? So we're going to create this. As we can see right here, we could set up a subscription filter policy. This is optional, but with this policy, we could filter the messages that will be sent to the subscription, which can be really helpful if you have many subscribers that just need to get only subsets of the messages sent into your SNS topic. But we will not set it up right now. So we'll create the subscription, and now we need to validate the subscription. So as you can see right now, it is pending confirmation. And so to confirm it, I'm going to go into my Mailinator, and I've received an email. And by clicking on this Confirmed subscription, I'm going to confirm my subscription, so here we go. And now if I refresh this page, what I should be seeing is that my subscription right here is confirmed. So this is perfect. So again, if I click on my subscription, I can look at it, see that is going to send an email to this endpoint. And if I wanted to do it, I could have a subscription filter policy. But right now we don't have any, because we want all messages sent to my SNS topic to go directly into the subscription. So now, let's do a test. We're going to publish a message, and I'm going to just enter a message structure. I'll say hello world, which is very common when we test some services, and then publish the message. So the message has been published into MyFirstTopic. And so what I should be seeing is that if I go back to my emails and go to my public messages, so back to my inbox, I should be seeing, yes, an AWS notification message coming straight from SNS saying hello world. So very easy, very cool, and we just shows that SNS is working for us. So this is perfect. We're good to go. If we wanted to implement the SQS fanout pattern, we will need to choose SQS and set up many, many different queues as the receivers of the subscription for our SNS topic. So yeah, that's it for SNS. When you're done, delete the subscription and then go back to the topic on the left hand side, and then click on Delete to delete the topic by typing, delete me. And off you go. That's it for SNS. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon AppFlow

So, now let's talk about Amazon AppFlow. So, AppFlow is a fully managed integration service that enables you to transfer data between Software-as-a-Service applications and AWS. So, these integrations are quite difficult to write, and with AppFlow they're very easy. So, sources of data could be for example, Salesforce, SAP, Zendesk, Slack, ServiceNow and Salesforce is something that can come up in the exam. And the destinations you can send this data to can be Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift or even non-AWS targets such as SnowFlake and Salesforce. You can define the integration to run on a schedule or in response to specific events or on demand. You get, from within AppFlow, data transformation capabilities such as filtering and validation. And the data is encrypted over the public internet or you can transfer it privately using PrivateLink. The idea is that with AppFlow, you don't spend some time writing the integration, you just leverage these APIs immediately and you enjoy the data within your own accounts. So, in the AppFlow interface, you will have a source and you can select many different sources, but some of the important ones you need to remember are the ones I said from before, including Salesforce. And then using AppFlow, you can send this data into various destinations as you can see, Redshift, S3, and so on. So, that's it for AppFlow, just an introduction. I hope you liked it. And I will see in the next lecture.
---

*Section 7 of 20 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*