<!-- Section 6 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 6 OF 15: Working with Buckets and Objects
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Creating and Naming Amazon S3 Buckets

Welcome to this section where we are going to talk about creating and naming our Amazon S3 buckets. So we've talked about what buckets are, what objects are, all that good stuff. Now when we go create a bucket, we need to give it a name. And one of the things that we talked about earlier in the course is that when you create a bucket, each bucket must have a globally unique name. So if you look at the slide, take a look at the buckets and tell me, well, what's wrong with this slide? We've got three buckets one in US East, one, one in US two, one in US one. Now they're all named Amazon S3 Deepdive. That's the bucket name. Well, we can't have that. Remember that each of the bucket names must be globally unique. That means anywhere in the world, basically. So what it means is I can't have Amazon S3 Deepdive as a bucket name in multiple regions or the same region or in multiple accounts. Each one of our buckets must be unique. So in order to satisfy our naming requirements right here, we change the middle one to Amazon. S3 Deepdive to that could be a name. And then this one I change it to Amazon S3 Deepdive course. So in this case I can have my three buckets in my account or multiple accounts. And now these are valid names. And that of course, assuming that nobody has used these names, I just made them up. But in this case, we don't have three buckets with the same name. Now, when you do create a bucket, you must choose a bucket name and a region. You can optionally choose other storage management options for the bucket. After you create the bucket, you can't change the bucket name or you cannot change the region. Now, when you create a bucket, you are going to get an Arn. Every resource in Amazon has an Arn. An Arn stands for Amazon Resource name. So if I create a bucket in US East one and I call it Amazon S3 Deepdive, the Arn for that bucket is simply Arn AWS S3 and then Amazon S3 Deepdive. Now if you know anything about Arns, if you've seen them in the past, well, most of the time an Arn has an account name associated with it because inside of my account, well, I can go create maybe a policy or an EC2 instance or a KMS key and I can create them with a unique name. Now I can have that same name in other accounts because what happens is the Arn uniquely identifies that resource because the Arn generally has the account name associated with it. Now S3 is a little bit unique where we have to have that globally unique name and because of that the Arn can simply be Arn, AWS, S3, Amazon S3, Deepdive without the account number. So just keep that in mind. Talking about naming, well, there are additional rules to keep in mind, but these are the basics when it comes to bucket naming. Now, bucket names must be globally unique. As I mentioned before, bucket names must be between 3 and 63 characters long. So there's a fine line in terms of what you can name. Your bucket can't be longer than 63 characters. It can't be shorter than three. Bucket names can only consist of lowercase letters, numbers, dots and hyphens. You can't use an uppercase letter, you cannot use an underscore lowercase numbers, dots, hyphens. That's what you can use to make up your bucket name. Bucket names must begin and end with a letter or number so we can't begin a bucket name with a dot or a dash. We can't end it with a dot or a dash has to end and begin with a letter or number. Bucket names must not contain two adjacent periods, two dots in a row. A couple other additional rules to keep in mind not listed on the screen. Bucket names can't be formatted as an IP address. You can't have a bucket name like 1921685.4. Bucket names can't start with the prefix x n dash dash and bucket names must not end with a suffix dash s3 alias that's a reserved for Amazon. Now again, bucket names must be unique across all AWS accounts within a partition. Now I mentioned that a bucket name must be globally unique throughout the entire world. Well, that's sort of true. There are partitions, me and you. Normally we're just working in the traditional standard regions, US East one, us two, etcetera. That's one of AWS partitions. Now another partition is the China region. So if you happen to have a bucket named Amazon S3 Deepdive in our standard region, well, if for some reason you are working in the China region, you could have a bucket out there called Amazon S3 Deepdive as well because that's a separate partition in AWS manages that separately. In addition, if you are using AWS Govcloud within the United States, that is another partition. So you cannot have a. Drink bucket name within that partition. Now, again, traditionally most of us are going to work in our standard regions. But if you're working in China region or the gov cloud, those are separate partitions and you could have a bucket name that's the same in, say, Gov Cloud and our regular standard region. Just something to keep in mind there. Now the last thing I want to mention is that a bucket name cannot be used by another account in the same partition until the original bucket is deleted. So for example, I've got my bucket Amazon S3 Deepdive. If for some reason I wanted to move that to a different account or use that name somewhere else, I would have to go to the original account, delete that bucket first, and then I would be able to recreate that bucket in another account. Now that's assuming that somebody didn't use it by the time I deleted it and recreated it in another account. But you can move it like that. So that's something to keep in mind. Bucket naming. These are some valid bucket names based upon the rules that we just talked about. So of course we got Amazon S3 Deep dive I've been using as an example. I would definitely not use a invalid bucket name as the example through the whole course so far. Amazon Dash S3 Dash deep dive again, we can have dashes in there and even periods in between each one of those as well. Those are valid bucket names. Now some invalid bucket names just so you can get an idea. Well, we've got Amazon S3 deep dive, but we've got capital letters, uppercase letters in this name. That's not valid. Remember, it has to be all lowercase. We've got underscores in the second example, again, we can only have hyphens. And at the end here, Amazon S3 deep dive ends with a dash. Remember, our bucket name must start and end with a number or letter. So by ending our name with a dash that becomes an invalid bucket name. So again, uppercase letters not allowed here underscores not allowed only dashes and then cannot end with a hyphen on the last example bucket by the numbers here. So by default, when you are working in your account you can create up to 100 S3 buckets in each account. Now note this is a soft limit. Now if you're familiar with AWS, a lot of resources in AWS have soft limits, and in order to raise that soft limit, you must put in a request for a limit increase. Now, most of the time the turnaround on those is relatively quick. So if you need to go above 100 buckets in your account, for some reason you can simply make that request directly through support on the AWS console and they will raise that soft limit in your account so you can create more buckets. They're probably going to ask you how many buckets do you want to create? Now this limit can be increased as many times as you want, but there is a hard limit, a maximum of up to 1000 buckets per account. That means you start with 100. If you get to 100, you can request more. You can continue increasing that soft limit until you hit that hard limit, until you hit that maximum of 1000 buckets per account. Then if you hit 1000 buckets per account, well, you're kind of maxed out there and you probably want to start creating those buckets in another account. Now notice that is per account. So if I have five different accounts in my organization or something like that, well, I could create up to 5000 buckets at a max because I'm allowed 1000 per account. Now, when you're creating these buckets in your account, there's no difference in performance whether you use as many buckets as you need or just a few. You get that same standard performance out of Amazon. S3 Now again, we'll talk about performance later on in the course, but just something to keep in mind there.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Creating and Naming Amazon S3 Buckets

In this demo, we are going to go over creating a new bucket. Now it's pretty simple, especially when you're working in the UI, but we're going to cover it anyway just because we want to make sure everyone understands it in S3. Again, we have our list of existing buckets and we're going to create a new bucket. So I'm going to click on this button here. Now, this is the bucket that we're going to be working on throughout the rest of the course. All right. So all the demos moving forward, we're going to be working with this bucket in another bucket that we're going to create. So that way you see continuity between all the demos moving forward. So create bucket the general configuration. Here we need to provide a bucket name. Now remember, we need to follow all those rules. The bucket must be unique for any account. It must also follow all those naming rules that we talked about. So in this case, I'm going to create Amazon S3 Dive Bucket, so I'm going to call it Amazon S3 Deep Dive. Now I'm going to leave the region in US East one as we go down, we see a lot of these defaults. We're going to leave them for now. We're going to leave block public access bucket versioning, right? We'll go ahead and just keep that disabled right now. We'll enable that later. Default encryption, again, these are things that we're going to modify in the next video. So really all we have to type in here is the bucket name and choose the region that we want and that's it. So I'm going to scroll down here. I'm going to click Create Bucket and look at that. We have a new bucket called Amazon S3 Deep Dive. Of course, that means that no one else in the world is using this bucket called Amazon S3 Deep Dive. So if I were to go into another account and try to create this bucket called Amazon S3 deep dive, well, it would not let me do it. So, for example, I think I own the bucket called Brian Carlson. So if I do create bucket, if I type in Brian Carlson here and just leave the defaults and say create bucket, you can see that we got an error right bucket with the same name already exists. Now, if we go back to buckets, right, there's no bucket in here called Brian Carlson. That's because that exists. In another account of mine. Again, Amazon is going to double check to make sure that the name is unique across all of those buckets that it owns inside of S3. It's going to validate that there are no other buckets with that same name. Now, the other thing I want to showcase really quickly is how do we create a bucket using the CLI? So over here I have the CLI already open and this is the and I already have my credentials done by using the AWS configure command that we showcased in another video. So what I'm going to do is use the AWS cli to create a new bucket and I'm going to go really basic here. All right, so what we're going to do is do AWS, S3 API, and then we're going to do Create Bucket. Now, in this case, since we're actually creating a bucket and not working with existing buckets, we're going to use the AWS S3 API command instead of just the AWS S3. All right. So I'm going to do a line continuation here just so it makes everything nice and clean. Now, the first parameter we need to provide is the bucket name. So Amazon S3 deep dive. Well, we know that will fail, right? Because we already created a bucket with that name. So in this case, I'm going to add public at the end. So we have Amazon S3 deep dive public and we'll use that in a future demo. And finally, the other requirement here is the region. Now since my CLI set up to use us East one, I'm just going to go ahead and keep it in US East one. All right, so we have our AWS S3 API, create bucket, provide the bucket name, provide the region and we hit enter here and there we go. Location Amazon S3 Deepdive Public. That means we successfully created. Now, if we go back to the console here and we actually click refresh, you can actually see now here's our Amazon S3 dive public bucket that we just created. All right, so we have our Amazon S3 deep dive bucket we created using the AWS management console and of course the bucket that we just created using the AWS CLI.

---

### Lecture: Learning the Amazon S3 Bucket Defaults

All right. So when you create a bucket, well, there are some bucket defaults that you need to keep in mind here. So AWS does go ahead and apply several of these defaults when a bucket is created. The first one is going to be our S3 block public access, and the next one is going to be default encryption using SSH, S3. Now these are features that provide additional protection for you and your data that's stored in Amazon S3 and there are no additional costs or impact to performance by using these features. So a lot of times when you think encryption, you think, oh, there's, you know, additional overhead to encrypt and decrypt my objects, those kind of things, you should not see any impact to performance for default encryption and block public access is simply blocking public access. All right. So we're going to talk about each one of these in detail. So if you've been working in it for some time now, or maybe you just read the news, you may have noticed a trend going on in a specifically with S3. I've got a lot of different articles that I'm going to post here really quick. We're not going to go through them, but you can see Mcgraw-hill's S3 buckets exposed 100,000 students grades. Right? Misconfigured bucket exposed sensitive data for cancer patients Pegasus airlines leaks data right and bucket mess up leaky aws S3 bucket Once again at the center of data breach. There's all these different articles that are easily found on the internet that showcase. Well, you know, sometimes putting data in S3 can be dangerous if you don't know what you're doing. Now, when you put data into an S3 bucket, you have objects in your bucket. Well, you can make those objects public, which means that anybody in the world can read them. And a while ago it was kind of easy to do that. The configurations may have been, you know, a little bit misunderstood. Maybe new users were in there adding data into S3 buckets or, you know, administering their AWS accounts and they didn't necessarily know what was going on and they accidentally made their S3 bucket public, which means that all the objects can be read. Now, for the most part, that is the result of a lot of data breaches that happened and I wouldn't even call it a breach. I would call it. I accidentally shared all my data to the Internet. Right? I wouldn't necessarily say it was a security breach by any means. It was just a misconfiguration that allowed the public to read all of that data. So one thing that has done in the last several years is they've made it a lot more clear to the user when you are making objects or a bucket publicly accessible. So now when you're going to make an object public or a bucket public, you've got bells and whistles that go off saying, Are you sure you want to do this? This is going to make it public. Anybody can read this data. ET cetera. So they've been doing a much better job of making it 100% clear that what you're doing is going to make this data publicly accessible. All right. Now, one of those features is S3 Block public access, and it's going to help us with all the things we just talked about, Right. Objects and buckets being made public. This has resulted in organizations, you know, exposing data that wasn't meant to be shared. And then finally, like I said, Amazon started making changes to S3, where it makes you more aware that objects are going to be public and helps prevent configuration mistakes. So now by default, new buckets and the access points and objects don't allow public access due to S3 block Public access. Now this is a feature that's enabled in S3 now, and you can enable it or disable it based upon your needs. So again, you can enable block public access settings for access points, buckets or an entire AWS account. If you are using an AWS account for your organization and your organization never shares data through S3 right. You can easily enable block public access for the entire account or for an entire organization just to make sure that, well, a user can't accidentally share your data. And this gives you more confidence by ensuring that users can't accidentally make your buckets public. Now, the one thing that Amazon S3 doesn't support is block public access settings on a per object basis. All right. It's per bucket. It's per account or access points. So what does this actually look like when you log in to AWS? Well, in the Amazon S3 console, there's an option over here on the left called Block Public Access Settings for this account. And you can see by checking that check mark on the top there, it's going to block all public access. It's going to block people from being able to modify ACLs by making them public. It's going to block people from allowing public access through access points and other bucket policies. So by clicking on that block all public access, you can ensure that your buckets will. Will never be public. Now, if you don't click that top one, you can individually choose what. Settings that you want by the four at the bottom there. So if you know what's going on and you're strong with Amazon S3 or you've gone through this course and you understand all about ACLs and access points and all that good stuff, then you can make your individual decisions using those different rules at the bottom here. All right. So beyond the S3 block, public access, we also talked about default encryption, which is another default for your buckets. Now, this is something that was new in 2023. So up until 2023, Amazon did not automatically encrypt your object when they were uploaded. Now for a while you had the ability to set a default encryption for a bucket and then before that there was actually no default on there, right? So anytime you uploaded an object to S3, you had to individually choose if you want to encrypt that object or not. So now at the beginning of 2023, all new objects uploaded are automatically encrypted. Now the default that Amazon S3 is going to use is going to be server side encryption, SSE using Amazon S3 managed Keys. So that's where you see the Green SSC Dash S3 and that's going to be our base level encryption for every bucket. If you want to use KMS, which I generally recommend, you can actually change the default encryption to SSE dash kms and that's if you want more control over your keys, if you want rotation or be able to modify policies or those kind of things. So we'll talk more about encryption in a protecting data section later on in the course. All right. So continuing on with default encryption, if a put request headers don't include encryption information, then Amazon S3 is going to use that buckets default encryption configuration in order to automatically encrypt our objects. Now, if when you're uploading an object, you're doing a put if those request headers include encryption information, then S3 is going to use that information to encrypt objects before storing them, right? It won't use the default encryption. So if you don't provide it with information about encryption, it'll automatically use it using the default configuration If you do provide headers, right. In terms of how you want that object to be encrypted, it will use that information instead of the default encryption. So again, there's a lot more information about encryption in the protecting your data in S3 section later on in the course.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Amazon S3 Bucket Defaults

All right. So let's take a look at some of those bucket defaults that we saw when we were creating the bucket. So I'm going to open up our Amazon S3 Deepdive bucket here. And then what we're going to do is we're going to look at the properties first. And we can see that we have bucket versioning that is not enabled or disabled right here. And we have our default encryption which is one of those defaults. And we also are going to have our block public access. But that's going to be underneath of our permissions tab right here. All right. So we'll go over bucket versioning later. Let's look at our default encryption. Now we're going to go over encryption in detail later on in the Protecting your Data section. But let's click on edit here and look at these settings. Now as I mentioned in the lecture all new buckets will automatically have SSL S3 encryption enabled. That means any time you upload an object, it's going to be automatically encrypted at rest using ssc, S3. Now you can change the defaults here. So if you decide that you're going to change the encryption type again we're working with default encryption. If you want KMS, what we can do is either choose an existing KMS key or we can enter a KMS key Arn. Now, the reason you can enter an Arn here is because a lot of organizations like to centralize the creation of their KMS keys into a security account, and then that KMS key is shared with this account. So that gives you the option to enter the Arn if it lives in another account and use a key that lives somewhere else. But in this case, we're going to use a key that exists in this account. So I'm going to choose from your existing keys. I'm going to drop this down and I'm going to choose this one right here. And it was called S3 Production Data. This is the Arn of our KMS key that we want to use to encrypt all of our objects moving forward. Now we have this bucket key. And this bucket key is going to allow us to reduce how often S3 actually reaches out to the KMS service. Now, if you know anything about the KMS service, you are charged by the key. You're also charged by the request, right? And of course, and of course you get X amount of requests for free per month. But as you go over that you may be charged. So by using a bucket key what S3 does is it goes and generates a data key from your KMS key. And it stores that temporarily in your bucket. And it uses that data key in order to encrypt all the objects. And so by doing so, that reduces your encryption costs by lowering the number of requests that it sends to KMS in order to encrypt and decrypt your objects. So just an easy way to reduce your cost. If you're putting, you know, thousands or millions of objects inside of your bucket, well, you can reduce your costs by using a bucket key. So again, we're going to change our default encryption rather than using our standard SSC, Dash S3. We're going to go ahead and change it to SS Dash kms. And we're going to choose our key here. So I'm going to click on Save Changes. And now if we scroll down here we go. We have our default encryption in. Now it's KMS. And now here's the key that we're going to use. All right. So that's one of the defaults that we can change in our bucket. Now the other one is going to be the S3 block public access. And that's going to be under the permissions tab here. All right. So if you go down it's right here block public access bucket settings. Right. So in this configuration we are setting it on the actual bucket. We're not setting it on the account or anything like that. So here we would do edit. And we can make a change right. Do we want to block all public access. If you do choose that one of course it grays out the other four options for you. If you want to be able to pick and choose what you want, you can definitely do that as well. All right. So uncheck that. You can check what you want right. So okay I want to block it from ACLs. But maybe later we're going to use a bucket policy to make something public. So maybe you don't want to check those. Now in this case this is not going to be a public bucket. So we're not going to modify anything. And we're going to go ahead and just save changes to keep the same changes. Right. We didn't really change anything. So I'm going to type in confirm. Now what we can do is we'll make that change back at our public bucket. So go into our public bucket permissions. And ultimately down the road we're going to make some objects public in this bucket. So I'll choose edit I'm going to uncheck this. And we are going to use bucket policies down the road. So I'll go ahead and block everything through ACLs. But I will allow objects or the entire bucket to be public through a bucket policy instead of an ACL. So I'm going to uncheck that one. I'm going to leave these two checked because we're not going to use ACLs. And I'm going to go ahead and hit save changes. And we're going to confirm those changes. And I like these warnings right? This may result in some objects becoming public. AWS is doing everything it can to warn you that you may inadvertently make data public, just because of all the problems with data leaking from making objects and buckets public. Now, if you go down here, block public access off, write really big in red, right? It's warning you that you may have objects that can be public. If you go back to objects, of course, we don't have anything in here. If you go back to buckets, right. And we refresh here, we still have buckets and objects, not public, because we haven't set a bucket policy to permit any objects to be public. Right. We don't even have objects in that bucket yet. Again, you're going to see this change down the road as we make objects and maybe even the entire bucket public. Again, warnings all over the place just to ensure that you understand that objects can be public and they may be accessible by anybody on the internet. So again, those are two defaults our encryption settings and our block public access.

---

### Lecture: Working with Amazon S3 Buckets

Now we're moving on to working with our buckets. We understand how to create a bucket name, a bucket and some of the default configurations. Let's talk about some additional configurations that are made available to us. So after you create a bucket, you have the ability to change a lot more properties about that bucket and how it functions. Now you have what's called bucket properties and these properties allow you to change all the different settings for the bucket and how S3 manages all the objects that are stored inside of your bucket. Now some of these configurations include things like bucket versioning tags, default encryption server access, logging, cloudtrail data events, event notifications, transfer accelerations, object lock requester pays, and static website hosting. This is only some of the configuration changes that you can make to a bucket. So we're going to talk about each one of these throughout this course because it is an Amazon S3 deep dive course. I want to make sure that we touch on all the features here. But again, this kind of showcases the breadth and depth of all the configurations that you can make to a bucket. What does this actually look like when you go into a bucket here? You can click on your bucket and you can see there's a properties tag in here. So you can click on that properties tab and then you have all of the properties that are listed down there. So if you scroll down like in this screenshot, you would see all the things we talked about bucket versioning tags, static website hosting, versioning, all that good stuff are all inside of our properties tab here. So we understand that we're going to be able to upload and write and move data around. But what happens if we want to empty a bucket? So Amazon supports this feature called emptying a bucket emptying a bucket since deletes all the objects, but you actually can keep the bucket. It's kind of like having a gallon of water. If you dump it out on the ground, you still have your bucket, but all the water is now gone. If you empty an S3 bucket, all your data is deleted, but you still keep that bucket. Keeping that bucket can be important because we talked about that global name. You may not want to get rid of that name, so you may want to keep that bucket. Maybe that name is being referenced in applications and automation and all that good stuff. So you want to keep that name, but you just want to get rid of the data. Well, emptying a bucket allows you to do that. Now, once you do that, the operation can't be undone, means all the data is gone. And that means all versions of all objects are going to be deleted in there. Now, we'll talk about versioning later on, but if you do empty a bucket, basically everything's gone. There's no retrieving that unless you have that stored somewhere else. Emptying a bucket and deleting a bucket are two different things. So that's why I wanted to break them out here. Now, if you delete a bucket, that means the bucket is gone. You actually lose access to that global name. You no longer are guaranteed that name. The bucket leaves is no longer in your account. Now, one caveat here is when you delete a bucket, the bucket must be empty of all objects. You must empty the bucket or manually delete the data inside of a bucket first and then you can actually delete it. Remember, you give up the name when you delete a bucket, which means anybody else can go use that name. So if you want to keep that name, remember empty the bucket. If you want to keep the name, if you don't care about it, maybe it's some randomly generated name. Maybe it's just something you don't care about anymore. Then you can go ahead and delete that bucket. So two different things here. What does this look like? Well, if you go and click on Delete Under your Bucket here, click on the bucket on the left and you click on Delete. It's going to say, Hey, this bucket is not empty. Buckets must be empty before you can delete it. That means I had data inside of that bucket when I click on that delete button. And so what I can do is go delete that data and then finally I can come in here and type in the bucket name, say Delete Bucket, and it's gone. So one thing to keep in mind, Amazon will remind you if you're trying to delete a bucket and it is not empty. Now, one of the reasons I do showcase this specifically is because when a lot of folks are using automation to create buckets as part of maybe a project or something like that, and they're sending logs to that bucket and then they say, You know what, I don't need this project anymore. I'm going to delete it. And I don't care about the S3 bucket either. Well, if you're using like TerraForm or CloudFormation or some other infrastructure as code and you try to delete that bucket and it is not empty, well that stack will fail. That delete will fail because the bucket is not empty. So you must go delete that data first before your TerraForm or CloudFormation or whatever will successfully delete the bucket. So something to keep in mind there. And that's the reason I bring it up.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Deleting and Emptying Buckets

All right. In this quick demo, I want to just showcase how we can go ahead and work with files and buckets when we're working inside the Amazon S3 console. So again, I've got our console here. Let's go ahead and create a brand new bucket that we can work with. And let's just call this Brian Crowson. Delete this bucket. All right, So we're just going to leave everything else the same. Do create bucket. All right. So now we have this new bucket right here. All right. Let's go ahead and grab some objects and we'll go ahead and put them inside of this bucket. So I'm going to go over here and just grab a couple random things and drag them over here and upload these files. All right. We don't care what storage class or anything like that that they are in. So we've got a couple objects inside of our bucket. Now, if we go back to buckets here and I click on this bucket and I say, delete this bucket, cool. It says, This bucket is not empty, right? Buckets must be empty before they can be deleted. So you can either click this button here to empty the bucket or I'll showcase how you can do it on here. So you click the bucket and you simply choose empty right here. And then it says, Emptying the bucket deletes all objects. Yes, that's what we want to do. All right. So we'll type in permanently delete as requested. So once you type in that, you can see the empty button comes up, click on Empty and it's going to delete our objects. All right, so we can exit out of here. Now, if we click our bucket and say delete, now we can actually delete our bucket. All right, so we're going to type in our bucket name, delete this bucket, and then the option comes up, delete bucket, and it's gone. All right. So I just wanted to showcase how to empty your bucket, right? If you have objects inside of a bucket and you want to get rid of that bucket, you can obviously delete it. Remember the implications of emptying and deleting. So if you empty the bucket, you simply delete everything, but you keep the bucket name, The bucket stays there, but it's empty. If you delete the bucket, well, somebody could come behind you and actually get that same name if you wanted to keep that name. All right. So it may be best for you just to empty the bucket. So if you have a bucket that doesn't have any objects in there, it doesn't cost you anything just to keep this name in here. All right. So if you want to keep that name, just go ahead and empty it. Maintain the bucket, empty in your account. And of course, you can use it later. So this may be handy if you're using applications and you have configured some apps to point to a specific bucket or some CI CD pipelines or something like that, you can simply keep the name and then when you drop objects inside of that bucket, then you can obviously have your application or your pipeline continue to use that same bucket.

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Objects

Now that we know all about buckets and a lot of the configurations and how to create it and name it and all that good stuff, let's talk about objects here. Now, any time we have a file that's uploaded to a bucket, well, the files are called objects. An object is the basic unit of data inside of S3. It can be a file or a collection of data that we upload. Remember earlier when I talked about the different files you can store in Amazon S3? These would all be objects inside of our S3 bucket. So in my example here I've got image dot PNG vacation MP4. Maybe it's a video I took while I was on vacation and then maybe an order pdf from a customer order or something like that. Different types of objects. These are all files inside of our bucket. So quick object overview. I know we talked about this at the very beginning of the course, but this is just merely a reminder. Since we're going over objects, our individual objects can be up to five terabytes in size. So we can store as many of those as we want, but the maximum size for each object can be five terabyte. Remember, we have unlimited storage. There's no maximum bucket size or limit to the number of objects we can store in our bucket. So in our account, if we just had a single bucket called Amazon S3 Deepdyve or your name or whatever you want to call it, that bucket is like bottomless. We can put as much data inside of the bucket as we want to, or as many files or objects inside of it. And finally, as a reminder, we have right after read consistency for our new objects. So when we write data, we're going to immediately get the newest version of that. And then we have strong reads for updates. Again, if you update a version of an object as soon as you read that object. So if it's like right after you upload a new version, you're always going to get the latest version of that. Let's talk about storing objects. Amazon S3 is the object store. We talked about that several times now, but it uses unique key values to allow you to store as many objects as you want to. Now, any time we upload an object to S3, we get all of these key value pairs here. We get a key, which is the name of the object. A lot of times you think about that as the file name. That becomes the key. We have a version ID. Now, this is a unique string every time I upload an object. So if I have my vacation MP4 and then I upload the raw video and then I pulled it down and I edit it and I uploaded a new version of vacation MP4. Well, each one of those would have a unique version id, maybe version one, maybe version two. Each one would have a unique string per object. Each one is going to have a value, which is essentially the data that you're storing. And finally, you can have metadata that you create about your content or your objects. So let's talk about object names here. So when we upload an object, of course we're going to put it inside of a bucket. Now again, we have our bucket name, Amazon, S3, Deepdive. And inside of our bucket, I'm putting a new object called Bryant PNG. Maybe it's a fancy new picture that I took with a local photographer. So when I upload that picture of myself, I'm going to get an AWS Uri and that coincides directly with our object so that Uri is going to be S3, colon slash, slash, Amazon S3, Deepdive because that's the bucket name slash Bryant PNG. That's our object key. Now we're also going to get an Arn. We talked about how we had an Arn for our bucket earlier. Well, each object that we upload is also going to have its own Arn. In this case, you can see the first part. Well, it matches our bucket arn identically Arn AWS S3, Amazon S3 Deepdive. That was our Arn for our bucket. But now for our object inside of that bucket we have that same thing. But Slash Bryant PNG, that's our Arn for this specific object. And finally, we also get an object URL that's associated with this object too. Now this is going to help if you want to access this object publicly. So if you have a bucket and you make this object public for some reason, you want other people to access it, well, you can access it using this URL. So https colon slash, slash Amazon S3 deep dive notice, that's our bucket name. And then we have Amazon's piece of the URL, which is s3.amazon.com slash. And then we have our object name which is Bryan dot PNG there. So that is the object. So you can see anytime you upload an object, not only do we have all of our key values that we talked about before with our key and our metadata and all that good stuff, but we also have plenty of different ways that we can access our object as well. All right, Let's talk about Amazon. S3 Strong consistency. Now, we mentioned this a couple of times throughout the course. So S3 is built for strong read after write consistency. That means after a successful write of a new object in S3, or if you're overwriting or deleting an existing object, any subsequent read requests immediately receives the latest version of the object. There's no wait time. By the time we upload a new object or we overwrite or update an existing object, we will always immediately receive the latest version of the object. Now fun fact down here. S3 used to only support eventual consistency for updates, and that would mean that if I had an object uploaded say Brian dot PNG and then I read it, I would always get that first version because that was the first time I wrote that file. But if I uploaded a new version of Brian Dot PNG, maybe it was a fancy new picture. Maybe the old one was a couple years old and I took a new one. If I uploaded that new one and I try to read it immediately, I may actually get the older version because that newer version hadn't been replicated across all the devices inside of S3. So now you actually get immediate access to the latest version. Anytime you read an object, no matter how fast that subsequent read is after that upload. So it's something to keep in mind public versus private. So I've mentioned this a few times already. Objects can be publicly accessible or they can be privately accessible. And by publicly accessible, I mean that anybody in the world can access your object over the public internet using that URL that we saw earlier. If you upload an object or you make your entire bucket public, which makes all of the objects inside of the bucket public. Anybody can access that over the public Internet. Now, of course, if you don't enable public access, you have no object access from the Internet. So if you are a user at home and you're trying to access that over the Internet, you don't have access to it. Now, keep in mind that that doesn't mean that I don't have access to it using. The AWS CLI or the AWS API where I'm providing credentials to my AWS account so I can read and write data inside of my bucket. That's not what I mean here. I mean unauthenticated access where anybody can access that. That's what I mean by accessing the object over the public internet. So private objects, we obviously know what public is now accessing that over the public internet unauthenticated just by hitting a URL. Well, private objects means that I can store as much data inside of my bucket as I want and I can access all those objects through all of the other AWS services that I'm consuming inside of my account or other accounts that I manage, or even a partner's account that I've provided access to. So again, this is accessing our objects through private means, not over the public internet, but through other services. So if I have a lambda that needs access to data inside of my bucket, we can easily do that. If I need Cloudwatch to write data to my bucket, we can do that. It can be a private bucket, meaning it doesn't allow public access. And of course that means all the services can still read and write data from that bucket. By the way, as I mentioned before, it also means that as a user at home, I can also access that bucket using my API access or CLI access. So again, that's going through the cloud but am authenticated in that means it's just like a Dropbox or something like that where if you make a object public, anybody in the world can read it. But if you don't only I can access it or people have given access to can access it because they have the required credentials to access that data. So I just want to be sure that you're clear in terms of making an object or bucket public versus private and what services or who can actually access the data inside of that bucket.

---

### Lecture: Uploading Objects to S3

Let's continue on and talk about how we add objects to our bucket. Now we already know that an object's key will uniquely identify the object and it will create our path to that object. But what if we have a lot of objects inside of our bucket and we want to organize it in some way? That way it's easier to find those objects when we go looking for it. Well, S3 objects can use what's called a prefix to represent a folder structure very similar to like a Linux file system or a Windows file system. We can use this prefix, which is actually the forward slash delimiter in order to represent our folder structure. Now, any objects that don't have a prefix as part of the object name will appear to be at the root of an S3 bucket. So if you look at our examples at the bottom here, I have the first one is Amazon S3 Deepdive PDF. Now that one exists at the root level because we don't have a forward slash delimiter in there. Now the bottom one, we have cloud slash slash architecture dot PNG. Now that one's actually using the cloud slash AWS prefix. And finally in the middle here we have development slash my project dot xls x and that one is actually using the development prefix. So that's how we can use the forward slash in order to really group and create what represents a file structure inside of our bucket. Continuing on with our deep dive into S3, I wanted to address a common misconception about the use of directories within S3. Now, it's crucial to understand that even though you can use the forward slash delimiter inside of your key, S3 doesn't inherently support the concept of directories within buckets. It's a totally flat environment where each object resides at the same level. Now, when you see a slash in an object key, it's not necessarily indicating a folder or directory, as you might initially think. The key name simply includes the forward slash as part of that key name is simply treated as any other character. It doesn't necessarily signify any kind of hierarchy relationship. So, for example, consider this S3 object key in the middle here. Amazon S3 Deepdive slash cloud slash slash architecture dot PNG. So here cloud and are not folders or directories they're simply part of the key name for the architecture dot PNG object. So are the forward slash delimiters. It's just treated as any other character. Now lastly, a quick disclaimer here, although we just talked about this, the S3 user interface, when you log into the AWS console, it does make it appear that there are directories or folders because, well, it literally says create a folder and it gives you the ability to create a folder. But again, it's just a visual aid. It's really just a way to help users organize and visualize their data more effectively, does not reflect an actual directory structure within the bucket. Let's discuss all the different ways that we can upload objects to our Amazon S3 Bucket. Now these different methods will offer flexibility allowing you to choose like which one best suits your specific need and circumstances. Now one of the simplest ways to upload an object to S3 is just by using our AWS console, our UI. Now the console is going to provide us with like this user friendly graphic interface that makes uploading files very straightforward. It's just clicking a few buttons. You've probably use something very similar to this, similar to like a Google Drive or one drive or Dropbox or something like that. Few files drag and drop. Most of the time all that works. So this is really just an excellent option if you're managing small number of files or just performing kind of one off upload. So I use it quite frequently, but what if you really need to like automate the upload process or I don't know, handle large volumes of files? Now in these scenarios you have other tools at your disposal. You can upload objects to S3 programmatically using something like the AWS SDK, the rest API or AWS CLI. Now these tools really give you like greater control and automation capabilities, which can be essential for large scale or complex tasks if you are doing that. And finally, down here at the bottom there's the multi-part upload option. So this option lets you upload a single object in parts, hence the name, which this can be beneficial for large files. If you're dealing with network latency or instability, instead of uploading the entire object all at one time, what's going to happen is the object is divided into smaller parts, multi-part. That's why it's called multi-part upload. And then each one of those is going to be uploaded independently. So this not only improves the upload speed because we can upload multiple parts of the object at the same time, but it also provides us a way to resume an upload at the point of interruption and that allows us to, well, not have to start over from the beginning if some of our file failed. Normally, if you have one very large object and it's going to take hours to upload or something like that, maybe it's a very large database backup file, something like that, and you want to upload that to S3. Well, if it fails in the middle, guess what? You got to start all over. If you use multi-part upload, it'll break that one object up into multiple parts. It'll send those across the wire. And if some of them work and some of them don't, we can just simply restart the ones that didn't upload. We don't have to start from scratch. So whether you're using the AWS console for simplicity or you decide to use like the SDK API or CLI for automation, you can find definitely a method that best fits your needs depending on what you're trying to do with. S3 So we just discussed the various methods of uploading objects. So let's dive into an important aspect to consider when you're uploading, and that is file size limits. Now when we're using the AWS management console, the UI, it's critical to note that there's a maximum file size limit. The largest file that you can upload using the console is 160 gig. Now remember, there's a limit of five terabytes per object size in S3. However, if you're using the AWS management console, the maximum file size that you can upload is 160 GB. Now, this is a generous size limit that should suffice for uploading most of your data and most of your storage needs. But you know, it's still a limit. So if you have very large files that you need to upload, well, you can choose other methods and those other methods are the SDK, the rest API and CLI. So if you have larger files that exceed 160 gig S3 has you covered here, you can use one of these other options. Now these tools provide more powerful and flexible options for managing your data and they can handle the file substantial sizes, specifically ones over 160 gig. So again, while there is a file size limit for uploads using the management console, you can definitely use these alternative methods that allow you to handle these larger files with ease. It's all about choosing the right tool to meet your specific requirements here. The last thing I want to touch on is setting object properties during upload. So far we discussed how to upload objects and the file size limits, so I want to dive quickly into the properties we can set when you are uploading an object. So first permissions. S3 allows you set permissions on your objects and that gives you full control over who can access your data when you upload it. Now, these permissions can be configured for both AWS accounts and public access as well. And we're going to have a full section, actually multiple sections on security in this course. The next property that we can modify when we're uploading is the storage class. We already understand the storage classes and the ones that are available in S3. Obviously we have different storage classes to cater to different needs. So when you upload your object, you can choose the suitable storage class for your object during the upload process. The next one is encryption. So by default, all of our objects are encrypted. We already learned about that. However, you can choose a different encryption method if it's required during upload process. Remember, we talked about encryption earlier in this section where we said, okay, if you have the default encryption and you don't provide any encryption information, we're simply going to use the default encryption settings. But if you do provide encryption settings, well, that's what it's going to use. And that's what I'm talking about here, where you can specify the object properties, specifically encryption when you're uploading your object. The next one is additional checksums. So S3 does support additional data integrity checks. You can choose to include additional checksums. When you're uploading your object, you can add key value pair tags to your objects during the upload process. So these tags can really help you manage, search for and filter objects that are stored in your S3 bucket. And then finally, metadata. This refers to additional information we can attach to any of our objects during the upload process. Could be content type like custom user metadata, what kind of data it is? Is it private, is it confidential, is it public data? And this metadata allows you to simply manage, search for and filter your objects based upon the metadata. So to sum this up, when you're uploading an object to S3, you have the flexibility to define all these different properties to meet your requirements. This allows you to maintain control, optimize your costs, ensure data integrity and ease your data management within your S3 buckets.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Uploading Objects to S3

All right, let's work on uploading some objects to our bucket. So we've got our Amazon S3 dive bucket here. So I'm going to click into it and you can see we have no objects in this bucket yet, right? We just created this bucket. Now we have a few options in order to upload objects to our bucket. Now the first one is obviously click this big yellow button here or this white button right in the middle and we can select objects that we want to add. All right. So if I click on Add files here, it's going to open up a browser to view the files on my local desktop. Now I've got a folder that I've created called Amazon S3 and I've got a bunch of files that I want to upload into my bucket. All right, so I'm going to choose most of them here or some of them. So I'm going to click on Open and you're going to see all these files get uploaded. So we have selected seven files, 34 Meg. So of course the destination is going to be our bucket, the properties again, we can look at our storage class down here. I'm going to leave it as standard and I'm going to leave everything else as is. So we're going to click on upload here. You're going to see across the top where it says total remaining. It's moving our data from my local machine up to AWS into S3 here. You can see down here everything's succeeded except for our larger file, which is actually some data that it pulled down from the Internet based upon electric vehicle data. So you can see it's uploading. Right now it's in progress. It's about 50%. So it should take another, I don't know, 15 seconds to wrap that up here. So as it's uploading, we'll be able to see the success of all these files. You'll be able to see the status as it goes across. And of course we just hit 100% upload, succeeded, uploaded all of our files. Now what we can do is scroll up and we can hit this close. And now inside of our bucket, you can see, hey, there are all of our files. Now you can see the type of file you can see when it was modified. You can see the size of each file. And of course, you can see the storage class. Now, that's not the only way that we can upload our data. We can also simply drag and drop from our desktop. So over here I've got my desktop right here. I'm just going to move that over to my other screen, but I can grab another file over there and just pull that over and drop it right on here. It shows S3 bucket dot PNG. I'm going to scroll down, hit upload and there we go. We've uploaded another file and this was the file that we just uploaded right here. All right. So you can either click on upload and select the files that you want or you can simply drag and drop. Now, the other thing that I wanted to showcase is how you can do this using the CLI. Now the CLI has a cool command called AWS S3 Sync and what it's going to do is going to sync all the files that are in the current directory of where you're at over to your bucket. All right. So you can see in this instance I have eight objects inside of this bucket and if I pull this back over, there are I don't know, I'm going to guess, you know, 12 to 15 objects in here. And so we don't we haven't moved everything from here over into our bucket. So we're going to do that using the CLI. All right. So the directory that I'm at right now is P.w.d. users, BC Desktop and Amazon S3 That's the folder that I was showing you before the directory with the files. So what we can do is do AWS S3 and then type in sync. And if we put a dot, that means we're going to move everything over, right? Sync everything from our local directory over to our bucket. And it's only going to sync the files that are not already in our bucket. So then we can choose our bucket. S3 Colon slash, slash. And our bucket name was Amazon S3 Deep dive. All right. And then we hit enter here. It's going to sync all of our files so you can see that the files that we had already put up there are not actually being moved. Right. It only moved. One, two, three, four, five, six files. Actually, this dot, this directory, we don't have to worry about that. But it moved five other files. Right. We had about 15 files, but we had moved around ten of them in there already or eight, I think it was. All right. So you can see that it has synced everything from our directory up into our bucket. So if we go back over here and then we scroll down to objects and then we can click on refresh right here, you can see now we have 14 objects. So just by using the AWS S3 sync, it's a super handy way if we're working in a directory and we want to constantly update or replace some files that live up in our S3 bucket, we can easily sync them to our S3 bucket using the AWS S3 Sync. All right, so multiple ways to get objects into our bucket. Of course, this is a simple way. You can obviously use CLI or the API or something else, but obviously you can use the UI like we did using the upload button. You can drag and drop or you can use the CLI as I demonstrated.

---

### Lecture: Using Multipart Uploads for Files

So I do want to talk about multi-part uploads just a little bit deeper here, because this is a deep dive course I want to share. We go into it in detail. So this multi-part upload API allows us to upload a single large object that can be up to five terabytes in size because that's our maximum size for our bucket. It is an increase from the limits we talked about earlier and it can accommodate extremely large data files, maybe that database backup file or maybe some video files or something like that that are very large. An added advantage of multi-part uploads is that parts of a single object can be uploaded independently in any order and in parallel. So this not only provides a more flexible upload process, but it also potentially speeds up the upload of very large files so it improves efficiency for your organization. So to kind of wrap it up, the multi-part upload API operation in S3 is really like this powerful tool for handling very, very large files for you. Again, enables parallel uploads and out of order uploads, it allows for efficient and flexible data management, even when you're dealing with extremely large files here, some of the advantages of multi-part uploads. Well, we have improved throughput. We can upload parts in parallel and improve our throughput when we are uploading our data into Amazon S3, we have quick recovery from any network issues. So smaller part sizes minimizes the impact of restarting a failed upload due to a network error. So we can simply restart and we don't have to upload data that was already uploaded. We have the ability to pause and resume object upload so we can upload parts over time so we don't have to worry about uploading that one big object at once. We can upload pieces and parts as we need. And finally you can begin an upload before you even know the object size. As you're creating the file, we can simply upload the file as we're creating it. And ultimately when we're finished, we wrap up the multi-part upload, we wrap up the last part and then we have all of our data up in Amazon. S3 So what does this actually look like? Well, we have our large file over here on the left. We're going to split the file into smaller parts. We're going to send all those different parts in parallel, maybe at different times. We can pause, we can restart whatever. We can send all those to S3 Ultimately, all of those parts in S3 are going to be rejoined and ultimately we are left with our very large object living in our S3 bucket. So that's what this kind of looks like.

---

### Lecture: Accessing Your Objects

So let's talk about some of the methods for accessing our object here. Now, we talked about some of the URLs and like the Arn and those kind of things earlier in the section. But I want to specifically talk about the different types of URLs that you may see. Now, the first one is called the Amazon S3 Virtual hosted style Access. And you can see the format that it follows here in the middle. So we have bucket name, we have S3, we have a region code, amazon.com/and then the key name. So if you use the object inside the bucket that we've been using in this section, we end up with https Amazon S3 Deepdive dot S3 US East 1.amazon.com/bryan.png. That would be our virtual hosted style URL that we could use to access our object. Now, the format for this one is simply S3 dot the region code dot, Amazon Aws.com. And at the end now we have our bucket name slash our key name, our object name. So if we use the same bucket and the object that we've used up until this point, we would have https slash slash s3.1.amazon.com/amazon S3 deepdive slash Brian dot PNG. Now one thing to note here is that is actually working to deprecate path style URLs. So that's why I mentioned that you should be using virtual hosted style URLs instead because ultimately these are going to go away. Now AWS has been trying to get rid of path style URLs for a long time and actually they delayed the deprecation of them because I guess so many people were using them. But keep this in mind because ultimately they are going to get rid of this style of URL. The last one I'll mention here is using our S3 URLs. Now some AWS services still require that you access a bucket using this S3 style URL, which is why I want to cover it here. Now, the format for this one is very simple. It's simply https colon slash, slash bucket name slash key name. Really, really simple. So if we take our bucket and our object that we've been working with, it would simply be S3 Colon slash slash Amazon S3 Deepdive slash Brian dot PNG. Super, super easy. I want to make sure I cover that because you may see this style of URL when you're working with different services within AWS. Now that we know how to upload it, how do we actually access our object? Well, we can access our object in multiple ways. So in this example we have our bucket called Amazon S3 Deepdive. It lives in the region of US East one and the bucket lives in account. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Yes, I know that's not long enough because AWS accounts are 12 digits long. But just take that as an example. So inside of that account, the green account on the left, that's our account. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Well, we can simply access our data from that account. Now, you can also allow other accounts to access your data. So we have this account in the middle. 874033187. That may be one of our accounts. That may be somebody else's account that, you know, maybe it's a business partner or maybe that's your friend or something like that. You may give them access to read or write data in your accounts. So as long as your security configuration allows that, you can have different accounts that access a bucket that lives in a different account. And then finally, we talked about allowing public access to our objects directly from the public Internet. So again, that's something to be very, very careful about. But there are use cases where you want objects to be publicly accessible. So those are three different ways that you can access that. And of course, inside of any of these two accounts, it can be any number of services that are supported in AWS, could be Lambda, it could be Cloudwatch, it could be Athena, any of those we can access from inside of our accounts.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Accessing Your Objects

All right. Now that we have objects inside of our Amazon S3 bucket, let's learn how we can go retrieve some of those objects. Now, obviously, we can simply do it by using the UI. So if I go into our bucket that we added all of our files here, well, I can simply go into one of these files and click on this S3 bucket logo here. Now, at the top here, we have all those links that we talked about in our lecture. We have the S3 Uri, we have our Arn for this particular object and we have our object URL. Now, the first thing I want to point out is since this bucket is not publicly accessible, if I click on this link here, we're going to get an access denied. So click on the link and you can see right here, access denied. Now, again, that's because my browser is trying to go across the Internet in order to access our bucket, right? We're hitting the public IP address for that particular object. And of course it's access denied because I did not make that public. So if we go back here, one way that we can do it is simply at the top here. We can click on download, so I can click on download and you can see at the top it downloaded right in my browser super easy. Now of course, if I click on this open button up here at the top, well, it's going to go ahead and open our object because we are authenticated into Amazon S3 and then we have permission to view this object directly. All right. So we can actually see this bucket here. Now, if we go back here again, the arn, if we need the arn, and if we're working with particular AWS services that want the S3 Uri and this is what we would want to provide it. All right. So if we were working inside of, say, an EC2 instance or something like that, or we're working with an EC2 instance that we're using the AWS CLI, this is the Uri that we would use to access that particular object inside of our bucket. So if we scroll down here, you can see more information specifically about our object. You can see what storage class it lives in right here. So standard, you can see the default encryption configuration. So this one is again the SSC KMS that we set up in a previous video. And you can actually see the key that this particular object is encrypted with. So you can see that we don't have tags defined, any checksums, object lock or anything like that configured for this particular object. Now if you look at permissions on here, you can see the ACL for this particular object. And since we have object ownership enabled on our bucket, we're not going to use ACLs to provide any permissions. If we go over to versions, well, we can see that because we don't have versioning enabled, we don't have any versions, right? So we will enable versioning when we talk about that in the course and then we'll be able to see multiple versions of this particular object. Now the other thing I want to showcase is how we can get objects using the CLI. So if I go over here, here's my desktop, here are all my objects that are inside of my bucket that we use the sync command before. And if I go over here you can see that we have the CLI now we can use the CLI to get objects from our bucket. So what I'm going to do first is make a new directory and I'm going to call that images and then I'm going to CD into images. So we have a new directory and if I do an LS, you can see there's nothing there. All right, so we have a new directory. All right, So what we're going to do is do an AWS S3 CP for copy. And what we're going to do is provide our source. So our source is going to be our bucket. S3 Colon slash, slash, Amazon S3 Deepdyve Cool. That's where our files live. Now. We're already in the directory of where we want to copy those files, so I'm just going to put a dot here. All right? So if you need it in another directory, you would put the other directory right here and we want to do a recursive lookup against all of our objects. So I'm going to do dash dash recursive. And now we're going to do two things. The first thing I'm going to do is do an exclude and we're going to tell it. We want to exclude everything, which kind of sounds weird. However, what we're also going to do is do a dash dash include and we're only going to include our files that are star dot PNG. All right. So at first we want to exclude all files but only include files that are star dot PNG. Right? We only want our images that end in PNG. So again, AWS S3 CP for copy. Our source is our bucket here. Our dot represents the local directory of where we want to store our files. In this case, we're already in that directory. We want to do a recursive query. We're going to exclude everything except we're going to include all PNG. All right, so I hit enter here. It's going to download all of our files and notice that the files that downloaded are only PNG right? S3 Bucket PNG, Avatar PNG S3 bucket with objects png. Right. So it only downloaded our images from our bucket the end with PNG. All right. So we go back to our bucket here. Again, here's our main directory. If I go into images, there we go. We can see that we only have objects that end in PNG because we put that query on there that says only download those particular objects. So that showcases multiple ways that we can download and access our objects that are stored inside of our S3 bucket. Again, we can do it directly in the AWS management console. We can do it in the AWS CLI. And of course if you're using the API, you can access your objects like that as well.

---

### Lecture: Working with Amazon S3 Objects

Now that we have data uploaded into our bucket, how do we actually work with some of these objects? We have different ways that we can modify our objects. Now, the first one I want to touch on is changing the storage class of an object. We talked about that all through a couple sections ago. Each object in S3 is going to have a storage class associated with it. It's not per bucket, it's per object. You can change the storage class manually. You can use intelligent tiering that we talked about, or you can use lifecycle rules to move it between our storage classes. So by changing the storage class of your object, what it does is it creates a copy of the object with updated settings and a new last modified dates. So to do that, if we open up our bucket and we look at one of our objects called PNG. If I click on object actions, you can see I have the ability to edit the storage class here and we can go in there and choose the storage class that we need. Again, this is the way that you would choose a storage class. If you are moving from, say, a lower tier like one zone or AIA or something like that. And you wanted to go back to maybe S3 standard is the way that you would do that. You could also obviously move down the stack so you can move things from S3 Standard down to Glacier or something like that. But if you need to move up, this is the way to do it. All right. So let's talk about deleting objects now to save on costs, you should obviously delete objects that you no longer need. If these are objects that you don't care about, go ahead and delete them off of S3 to save on costs. Now you can delete any files manually using the S3 console so you can do it through the SDK, the CLI or API, any of the ways that you can access the Amazon S3 service. You should be able to manually delete files that way. Now you can also do it in an automated fashion by using something like lifecycle rules to automatically expire and delete objects for you, right? So you can say, okay, I'm going to upload a bunch of objects and after they live for 90 days, then I want you to go ahead and delete them for me so you can use lifecycle rules for that. Finally, when you delete objects, it's going to be slightly different for a version enabled bucket. We're going to briefly introduce that, but we've got a whole section on versioning here. So when you do delete an object in an S3 bucket that has versioning enabled, the object is actually not permanently removed. So if we have version one here, which is now becomes the current version, we introduce version two. Maybe these are pictures of our headshot for work. The version one was when we first started, maybe version two was a couple years down the road. So we upload a new version. We want to use that for something. Well, it becomes our current version. So anytime we read that object, we always get version two and maybe down the line, Hey, we're going to get our ten year badge and we're going to take a new picture. Now we have version three that becomes our current version. Now if you delete the object in a versioned bucket, what's going to happen is the object is not actually permanently removed. Instead, you get what's called a delete marker is added as the new version of the object. Now we actually have like four versions of the object, and the version four is essentially a delete marker. Now the delete marker becomes the current version. And what this does is it makes the object appear as if it's deleted, but the previous versions of the object are still there and we can actually retrieve them by specifying like the desired version ID in the request. So if this sounds confusing, don't worry, we're going to go over all this stuff in a future section where we're going to dive deep into versioning buckets and finally moving and copying objects around. So when you move an object in S3, you're essentially performing two operations here. So what it's going to do is it's going to copy the object to the new location either within the same bucket or to a different bucket, depending on where you're trying to copy or move the object to. And then it deletes the original object. So the copy operation here actually creates a new object with the same content metadata, access control lists all as the original, and then it performs a delete operation to remove the original object. Now note that by moving an object instead of copying it, it does not preserve the object's version ID. So if the destination bucket has versioning enabled a new version, ID is actually going to be assigned to the copied object?

---

### Lecture: Using Lifecycle Rules

In this section, we're going to talk all about managing your storage lifecycle. So managing the storage lifecycle in S3 is going to really involve handling your data over time. Now it's going to allow you to optimize your storage costs and ensure that you have effective data management when it comes to storing your objects on S3. Now, with storage lifecycle management, you can automatically move between different storage classes based on factors like usage patterns or the age of your data. This is going to help ensure that frequently accessed data is going to always be stored in their faster storage, while less frequently accessed data is going to be stored in a more cost effective manner. By automating all these transitions and defining these rules, it allows you to simplify your management of data and ensure that it is stored efficiently through its lifecycle. So what exactly is storage lifecycle? Well, it really involves managing the lifecycle of your stored data on Amazon S3 and it's an important operational task that really helps optimize your consumption of Amazon S3. So we have kind of three benefits of outlined here. The first one really focuses on data transmission and performance. So with our S3 lifecycle rules, we can automatically transition objects between different storage classes based upon their age and access patterns, as I mentioned before. Now, this ensures that frequently accessed data is stored in high performance storage, while infrequently accessed data is go ahead and move it over to our cost effective storage classes so we save on costs. And speaking of costs, one benefit of managing your storage lifecycle is of course, cost optimization. By leveraging our lifecycle rules, we can significantly reduce our storage costs by storing data in the most appropriate storage class over time. Now, this is going to help eliminate the need for manual monitoring and intervention as our rules will automatically handle our data transitions based upon our predefined criteria that we give it. And finally, expiration and deletion is a big part of this as well. Our lifecycle rules will enable you to set expiration dates for your objects or define a specific time frame after which the objects are going to be automatically deleted. This, of course, is going to help us enforce data retention policies and it's going to ensure that our data is not stored longer than necessary because, as we already know, S3 is a pay as you go solution. So the more data we store on S3, well, the more our bill is going to be. So let's check out the storage lifecycle here and see what we actually mean. So first of all, I have a timeline across the top here. And let's say it's day one. Apparently in AWS, it's always day one. But let's say today is day one and we're going to provide our initial upload of objects into S3 Standard. I'm just going to call it Object A, We're going to work with a single object right now. So we're going to upload our object into S3. Maybe we're working with the object, maybe it's a video we're editing, maybe it's photos that we're using, maybe it's data that we're processing. It doesn't really matter what it is. But what we can do is we can start managing the lifecycle of this object. So the first thing we can do is create what's called a lifecycle rule. And this lifecycle rule is going to say, you know what, I want to transition this data over to Standard-ia after, I don't know, 45 days. So day 45, our object is moved over to Standard-ia. So now our object lives in Standard-ia. We have that cost reduction. So next what we can do is also set up another lifecycle rule. This lifecycle rule is going to say, You know what? After 90 days, I want to go ahead and transition this data from Standard-ia over to Glacier because we're probably not using it very often and we want to go ahead and continue saving on our storage costs so we create a new lifecycle rule says Transition to Glacier. And on day 90, our object gets moved over to Glacier and we're taking advantage of that ridiculously low cost of storing data on Glacier. And finally, you know what? After a year, maybe we don't even need that data any longer. We want to keep it around just long enough, just in case. Maybe we want to reference it later. But after a year, we're pretty comfortable that we can go ahead and delete that data so we can create another lifecycle rule that says after one year, go ahead and delete our data, go ahead and expire our data Now inside of a lifecycle policy, when you delete an object, they call it expire data. It expires after a certain date and then we want to go ahead and delete it. So on day 365, our object is deleted from storage and we no longer have to pay for that on any storage class. So hopefully this gives you a good overview of how you manage the lifecycle of your objects. Again, we want to keep it over on the left S3 standard if we're using our object and. Then we can continue moving it to the right to save on costs as our object is used less and less frequently. And then finally, ultimately, we can delete our data using lifecycle policies. We've talked a lot about transition. What in the world is a transition? So transition is really the process of moving or expiring an object or objects based upon a pre-configured period of time. So when I say moving, it really means moving an object between storage classes in S3 We're not copying it. We're actually moving it from one standard to another tier. And when I say expiring, that's really just deleting. That means we're going to expire our data, It means we're going to delete it. So I want to make sure that if you see these terms, you know exactly what we're talking about down here On the example. Any time we actually have a transition, we're moving objects from one storage class to another, as well as expiring our data at the bottom. What are our supported transitions, moving our data around in S3 across our different storage classes? Well, if you start up at the top here, we have S3 standard in purple and we can set up a rule to move it to any tier that we want. It's supported to move it to any tier. Now as we move to the right, we're moving to those other storage classes. Notice that we can move any of our data as we continue to the right. So say right in the middle, the one zone IA lifecycle policies will allow you to move it to Glacier Instant Glacier flexible or glacier deep dive. However, notice that we cannot go up. Lifecycle policies only support transitions to move to the right to move to lower tiers. The cheaper tiers lifecycle policies do not give us the ability to actually move up. If we actually want to move up to a different tier, we can actually just manually do it. We can do it with the CLI or API or something like that. We can also do it with, say, S3 batch operations. But when we're talking about storage lifecycle and lifecycle policies or rules, we do not support moving up. We're only going to be able to move down. When we talk about transitions and setting up our different rules, we can limit the scope of our objects so we can transition all the objects in our bucket. So we want to say, you know what, everything in this bucket, I want to go ahead and move that to a different storage tier. Maybe you're categorizing your buckets by project or something like that and you say, okay, we're done with this project. We want to go ahead and move this to a different tier so we can totally do that. We can also filter objects by things like our prefixes inside of our bucket object tags, which we've already learned about object size or any combination of those that we need. So across the bottom here, we have our purple boxes. Maybe we want to transition everything inside the prefix called production in the middle here, our triangles. Maybe we want to transition all of our data that's tagged with environment and development. And then finally on the right, the example here, maybe we have a combination of the object size is greater than one gig and it has a tag of video final. Maybe those are videos that we've already uploaded into our streaming service, but we still want to keep them around just in case so we can move those to like I know S3 flexible or something like so it's super cheap to store it and we probably won't be retrieving it that often. These are just examples of how you can limit the scope of what objects inside of our bucket that we move it to. Again, we can do the entire bucket or we can use these filters to filter down the data that we want to move. So we talk about all these transitions. Well, what actions can we actually take using lifecycle rules? Well, there are 5 or 6 different ones here that are listed. The first one is move current versions of objects between storage classes. And the key word here is current versions. Again, remember, buckets can be versioned, buckets can be non versioned. So if we have a version bucket or just a non version bucket, we can move the current version of objects to a different storage class. Now, if we have a versioned bucket and we have non current versions inside of our bucket, we've been replacing our objects and we have older versions in there. We can actually move our old non current versions to a different storage class as well. We can do that to save on costs. Now we can expire current versions of objects. Remember expire means delete. So we say, okay, after a certain time, I want to go ahead and delete these objects. We can also permanently delete non-current version of objects. So you can set up a lifecycle policy that says, you know, we want to continue versioning our objects, but after version ten, we don't care about that. So if you have stuff that's older than that, well, we can go ahead and get rid of it. And finally we can delete expired object delete markers or incomplete multi-part uploads. So if we have a bunch of objects that have a delete marker in there, we can get rid of those or we can delete multi. Part uploads that were incomplete. That's just data that's being stored on our S3 bucket that's just costing us money and we're probably not using it. We can set up a lifecycle policy in order to do that as well. So these are really the five actions that we can perform when you are going to configure a lifecycle rule on your bucket. So we mentioned expiring objects. Again, expiring objects is really just a fancy way to say delete my object based upon the number of days since the object was written to our storage. Now again, we have non version buckets and we have version buckets and they're handled a little bit differently. When we set up a lifecycle rule that says Expire our objects. So on the left we have a non versioned bucket. So we have an object in our non version bucket and we say, okay, we want to expire the data. Well when we set up a rule and it goes and deletes our data, well that object is just deleted, permanently removed from the bucket. We now have to worry about versions because this is a non version bucket. Now on the right we have version buckets and we have an object inside of this version bucket. When we set up a rule to expire objects in a version bucket, what it actually does is add a delete marker as the latest version of each of those objects. We already learned about versioning, and you know that. Now if we go to that bucket and say, I need this object, S3 is going to be like, You know what? That's kind of gone. It's really not. There's just a delete marker there, but we can add a delete marker to all of our objects. So it looks like that object is now deleted. Again, expiring objects handled a little bit differently between non version buckets and version buckets. So it's important to keep that in mind a little bit more about lifecycle transitions here. You cannot transition from any storage class back up to S3 Standard Class again, we can't go up. We can only go down. We cannot transition any storage class to the reduced redundancy storage. Again, reduced redundancy storage Is that storage class that we don't really talk about? It's an old version of a storage class that's not really used, but I guess Amazon still has customers that are using it, so it's still kind of there. But ultimately we don't want to use reduced redundancy. We have other classes that we use instead. We can't transition from S3 Intelligent-tiering up to S3 standard IA. Again, that's going up. We can only go down. And finally, we cannot transition from something like one zone IA to the ones above again, Intelligent-tiering Standard IA S3 Glacier Instant retrieval. We cannot move from IA to those storage classes Now, before you transition objects to S3 standard IA or one zone IA, we've got to store them for at least 30 days in Amazon S3 Standard. So, for example, we cannot create a lifecycle rule to transition objects to S3 standard IA storage class one day after you create them. S3 is not going to support that transition within the first 30 days because newer objects are often accessed more frequently or deleted sooner than is suitable for IA or one own IA. Now, when you're using storage classes like S3 Standard or One Zone IA, again, don't forget that there is a minimum charge for storing your data for at least 30 days. Now, due to this, it's important to note that you cannot create a single lifecycle rule that transitions data from IA or one zone IA to glacier flexible or glacier deep dive. If the transition to glacier occurs within less than 30 days of the initial transition to IA or one's own IA. So a few different rules in there. Just keep in mind that our transition still has to follow our minimum storage policies and you're still going to have those minimum charges for storing data on some of those storage classes. Now last thing I want to touch on here is transition conflicts. Now you can create a bunch of different rules to move data however you want, and maybe those rules conflict with each other. Maybe you have a rule that says, okay, move this data over to this storage class or expire this data. What happens if those rules kick off at the same time? And there is a conflict? Well, any time you have a conflict, any kind of rule that's going to delete or expire data is going to take precedence over transitions. A transition is going to take precedence over creating delete markers. So it's going to keep your data instead of putting those delete markers in there. And finally, Glacier Flexible is going to be prioritized over standard IA. If for some reason an object is eligible for moving to both Glacier flexible Retrieval and S3 Standard IA, Amazon S3 is going to choose S3 Glacier flexible Transition, so it's going to move it to Glacier instead of standard IA. So these are just the general rules that you want to keep in mind if in fact you have a transition conflict and how Amazon S3 is going to handle that. So hopefully this was useful. Learning all about storage lifecycle and managing our objects inside of our bucket. Again, helpful to ensure performance. Helpful to ensure cost optimization and ensuring that our data lives on the proper storage class to ensure cost reduction and performance. So that's it for this one. We're going to jump into the console and we're going to play around with lifecycle rules a little bit and showcase how it's going to move our data based upon the criteria that we provided.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Lifecycle Rules

All right, let's create some lifecycle rules for our objects inside of our bucket. So on the screen, I'm back in our Amazon S3 console, and you can see I have a list of our buckets. Now, of course, we've been working with this Amazon S3 dive bucket, so we're going to work with that one when we create our lifecycle rules. So I'm going to go ahead and go into the bucket here. And in order to create a lifecycle rule, you're going to go underneath of the management tab here. And the very first one says lifecycle rules. So we're going to create a lifecycle rule here. And what we'll do is we're going to say move objects between classes. And then what we're going to do is keep our role scope. We're going to apply this to all of the objects in the bucket. Now, Oliver objects are simply in the root of the bucket. Right now we don't have any prefixes and we're not going to use any filters like tags or anything like that. So we'll go ahead and apply it to the entire bucket and we'll go ahead and confirm it here. Now, if we scroll down the lifecycle actions, right, this is what we want to happen inside of our bucket to our objects. So because we don't have versioning enabled on this bucket, I'm just simply going to choose move current versions of objects between storage classes. And the first thing we want to do is we want to move all of our objects from standard over to a after 30 days. So we're going to choose a storage class transition here. We're going to leave it on standard and we're going to choose 30 days. All right. Now, the cool thing about a lifecycle action is we can actually have multiple transition within a single rule. So I'm going to click on add Transition here. And what we'll do is we will choose Glacier instant retrieval. And then maybe after 180 days, we want to move things from standard over to Glacier, right? So after 30, it's going to move from S3 standard over to standard Standard-ia And then after 180 days, it's going to move it from Standard-ia over to instant retrieval. So that's what we have set up here. So before we click Create Rule, let's look at this review transition and expiration actions. So day zero, our objects are uploaded and it's going to start counting up to 30. Once it hits day 30, we're going to move our objects to Standard A and then after day 180 objects are going to be moved to Glacier instant retrieval. So that's what's going to happen when we create this rule. So we create this rule. And now you can see that we have this new lifecycle rule that's been created and enabled on our bucket. Again, you can see the name we created here. The status is enabled, the scope is entire bucket and you can see the current version actions, right? Transition to standard, then glacier instant retrieval. All right. So that's the simplest way to create a lifecycle rule in order to automatically move your objects between storage classes based upon a predefined rule that you create inside of each of these lifecycle rules. Now, of course, we know we can create multiple lifecycle rules on this same bucket. So if we wanted to create another lifecycle rule, we could go ahead and do that and we would want to make sure that it didn't conflict with our other lifecycle rules. So there weren't any issues with moving our data around.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 and Glacier Select

All right. So the next topic that we're going to discuss is Amazon S3 Select and Glacier Select. Now, these are services that are going to enable you to retrieve a subset of your data from storage without needing to retrieve the entire object. Now, by doing so, this can significantly reduce the amount of data that's transferred out of S3 and therefore it improves your performance and it reduces your costs. Now, S3 Select is especially useful when you need access to specific data from very large objects. It's going to allow you to use something like simple SQL expressions to pinpoint the exact piece of data that you're after. Now, on the other hand, Glacier Select is for data that's stored in Glacier. Now, Glacier Select is going to allow you to run queries on data archived in Glacier without having to restore that entire archive. Now, both of these are going to provide you with a more efficient means to extract data from your storage objects and archives without needing to retrieve the entire content. Again, the idea is to save both time and reduce costs. So let's understand the real issue here. Say, for example, we have a data analytics bucket and inside of this bucket we have many large objects. In this case, we have one very large object represented by the triangle here. Now, this data is something that we're going to perform some data analytics on. Now, if we want to perform data analytics, even on a subset of that data with our data analytics application, what we need to do right now is retrieve the entire object and then the entire object is sent back to the data analytics application. And then from there we can use the application to really narrow down what we want to perform some data analytics on and ultimately get our results. Now the problem here is that on the data analytics app side, if we know the subset of data that we want to perform analytics on and we know where that is in our bucket, right? It's part of that large file. Well, right now we have to pay for the transfer costs of that entire large object because we transferred that entire object from our S3 bucket. So we have to pay for the transfer cost of that large object and we have to pay for the request. Well, what we can do is use S3 Select, or we can use Glacier Select to filter down to the data that we need. So in this case, again, we have our bucket with our large object here and we have our data analytics application. Well, what we can do is from our data analytics application, instead of retrieving the entire large object, we can retrieve specific data from that specific object. So we can use SQL statements to say, You know what, I only want these rows or these columns or this type of data out of that object. I don't need the entire object. All right. So what we're going to do is build a filter down the results and only send back that requested data. Right? Only a subset of that large object. So we don't have to move that entire large object over. We only move a small subset of the data that we need. So in this case, we can filter the data by using rows and columns, using simple SQL statements, and that allows us to reduce the costs of our requests because now we're just moving minimal data from S3 right? We don't have to move that very large object. We only move a small part of it. So a few more things about S3 Select and Glacier Select. Again, sometimes we don't need all the data in an object, so imagine having a way to peek inside of your data and just really grab the bits that you need so we can do that using our SQL statements. Now the SQL statement that's supported is the select command, right? That's the only SQL Statement command that is supported. Now, this command, again, is sort of like, I don't know, a magnifying glass allowing us to really zoom in on the specific data within an S3 object. We can filter out all the unnecessary data that we don't need and only retrieve the data that we need. Now, this can be done with objects in different formats such as CSV, Json or Apache parquet. Now these objects can even be compressed with GZip or Bzip2, and you can still use those SQL statements to get the data that we need from those objects. However, there is a small catch here. SQL statements cannot be used to query objects that are a part of your intelligent-tiering archive and deep archive tiers. So if you're using Intelligent-tiering and your data lives on your archive or deep archive tier, well we can't use S3 select in order to grab that data. If your data lives in glacier flexible retrieval or glacier deep archive. Well, we can't use Glacier Select to get that data. It's got to be in glacier instant retrieval. And by the way, you can't use it against reduce redundancy storage, which is again, that's the storage class. That's pretty much. We don't really talk about it. It's still there, but nobody uses it. But I just want to make sure that you understand that if for some reason you're still using reduce redundancy storage, you cannot use S3 Select for that either. All right. So quick lecture on Amazon, S3 Select and Glacier Select just to make sure you understand what it is and why you would use it. Hopefully that was useful. And we'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Tagging Objects

In this section, we're going to quickly dive into object tagging and understand how we can use tags on all of our objects. Now object tagging in S3 is really a way to organize and label all of your stored data. It can help you categorize your files based upon different criteria like projects, teams, or types of data. For example, you can tag files as Project A or marketing team to easily find and manage them later. Object tagging also allows you to control who can access certain files by assigning tags for access permissions. Now, additionally, you can also use special tags called cost allocation tags to keep track of how much you're spending on different projects or departments based upon the amount of data that you're storing in S3. Now, this can help with budgeting and billing. Now we'll dive into more detail on cost allocation tags in the cost management section later in the course. But overall, object tagging in S3 makes it a lot easier to find, manage and control all of your data in a really simple and organized way. Tags in S3 are made up of simple key value pairs that are assigned to objects. A tag is going to consist of two parts the key and a corresponding value. Now the key is like a category or a name, while the value is a specific information that's going to be associated with that category. For example, you can have a tag with, say, department and a value of finance to indicate that a file belongs to the finance department. Now, tags are going to provide a flexible and a really straightforward way to add information to your objects and help you organize and manage your data more effectively. So, for example, on the screen here, there are three different objects inside of our bucket. We have customer list PDF, we have index.html and we have leadership dot PNG, which may be a picture of our leadership team. Each one of these has a key name of course inside of our bucket, but each one of these has been assigned multiple tags and you can see customer list is assigned with confidential equals. True PII equals true. It can be true or false. It could be any value their index.html. Public true owner equals dev. Maybe that's the dev team that owns that particular file. However, the cost may be associated with the marketing team because it's associated with our public website. And finally, the leadership may have confidential equals false because well, we may not care. We may want people to see our leadership team and the project that that leadership file is associated with, maybe our website. Each one of these has a specific key name, of course. And now we've added tags to each one of these objects so we can easily identify and sort them based upon this additional data. Now in S3, objects can have up to ten tags each. Each tag is going to consist of that key value pair. Now each key must be unique within an object. So this means you can assign multiple tags with the same key to a single object. However, different objects can have tags with the same key. The tag can be up to 128 characters in length, and this really allows for a descriptive and meaningful label. The tag value, on the other hand, can be up to 256 characters, and this provides a lot of space for relevant information about your object. Now, tags in Amazon S3 are case sensitive, so keep that in mind. And that means tags with the same characters, but different cases are considered different tags. So example department with a capital D and department with a lowercase D would actually be treated as two separate tags. Now you do have the flexibility to add tags during the upload process of objects, or you can easily modify existing objects to include one or more tags. Again, this allows you to organize and categorize your objects as needed, even after they've been uploaded to your S3 buckets. So one thing that we've already seen before is we have the option to filter based upon our prefixes. So here again, we have three different objects inside of our bucket. Key name is Amazon S3 Dive Customers, customer list dot PDF, and then we have our index dot HTML and we have our leadership dot PNG again. Now we've added prefixes. Notice that customer list is inside the customers prefix and index and leadership are within our website prefix. Now if we were to apply a filter on these objects and we were to look for just the objects that were inside of the website prefix, we would end up with index and leadership because only those two objects meet the filter of Amazon S3 Deepdive slash website. So that's one way we can filter our objects. Once we add tagging, we also add another way we can filter. Objects to get even more specific. So again, just like before, if we put a filter on Amazon S3 deep Dive website, we can filter by those. But also maybe we only want to get files or objects that are associated with the development team. So in this case, the object that would match is only our index.html. So we kind of have two different ways to figure out how we can either assign permissions or set up lifecycle policies or whatever based upon both prefixes and even get more specific using tags that are assigned to individual objects. So let's take a look at that and figure out how we can actually use lifecycle rules alongside of our tags. So say inside of our bucket, we've got a bunch of images. Maybe they're images from us taking vacation to different spots. Maybe we went to London, Grand Canyon and Cape Town. Again, these are all in the same bucket. And all these have been assigned to S3 Standard because maybe we're creating I don't know, a scrapbook or a video that includes all of our files, and we want immediate access to them. Say we're working on our video and we've already imported all of our images from our Capetown vacation. So we want to go ahead and move those over to another tier to save on costs. In this example, there's only five files shown here, but, you know, it could be thousands or millions in a project. So what we can do is actually create a lifecycle rule and says, okay, in this lifecycle rule, we want to apply this to the bucket called photos, but we only want to apply this to photos that have a tag of vacation and Cape Town. And what we want to do is we want to go ahead and move those files over to S3 Glacier, flexible retrieval. Well, whenever that lifecycle rule runs, of course, we're only going to get and move the files that are associated with the tag of vacation Cape Town. It will not impact our photos that are tagged with vacation London and vacation Grand Canyon. So again, we can use a lifecycle rule to not only move all the files inside of a bucket, but now we can be more specific using tags, we can say, okay, I only want these specific files with this specific tag to be impacted by our lifecycle rule. Another way we can use tags is we can provide access to our objects using tags. So this is an example that we'll see in our securing access to our data section. But this is a bucket policy that provides access to get objects inside of our bucket, but only get objects that have a tag of environment with a value of development. So if I were to apply this to the user, Brian, as indicated, then when Brian logs in to this account and tries to do a get object on all objects, it would actually be denied for objects that are not tagged with environment development. Brian would only be able to get access to objects that have environment and development as a tag. So again, another way we can use tags on our object to provide access control to our data that lives in S3 and this is the condition that we're talking about here. So if you have a lot of objects in your bucket and maybe you've been providing tags on those objects as you've been uploading them, and now that those files have been processed, maybe you want to go ahead and change those tags and maybe we're thinking about hundreds, thousands or even millions of objects. If it's just a few objects, maybe we can do that in the console or use a CLI or something like that. But if we're thinking about millions of objects that we want to update and replace the object tags on, well, what we can do is actually use S3 batch operations. So in S3 batch operations we can create a new job. We can say the input is our manifest of our inventory inside of our bucket. And during that process we can say, okay, in this batch operation job, I want to replace all the tags on the objects that have a tag of status draft. I want to change them now to status production. We can modify the tags across millions of objects and we would do that using an S3 batch operations job in order to perform that job across all those objects. So that's the gist of tagging on our objects. Again, we use it to really organize and sort our objects, but again, we can create lifecycle rules based upon those tags. We can apply access controls based upon those tags. And again, we can simply organize our data using those tags and it allows us to work with our data even easier. That's it On tags. We're going to jump into the console and we'll showcase a couple demos using tags on our objects.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Tagging Objects

All right. Let's take a look at object tagging here. Now, we already know that we can tag our individual buckets with tags as we need. So if we open up our bucket here and then scroll down here, we have tags right here. So these are specific bucket tags that you can use to track storage costs and organize your buckets. So if you wanted to add a specific tag here, you could say cost center equals I don't know it, right. And save changes there. So we can add a specific tag to the bucket. Now that doesn't tag the objects inside of the bucket that just tags the bucket itself. So let's go back to our buckets here and we're going to go into our deep dive. And of course, we have all of our objects here. And what we can do is start tagging individual objects. Maybe we have objects inside this bucket where we only want developers to access. All right. So maybe our avatar dot PNG and our book PNG, we only want developers to access that. So if we open up our object and click on it, and then if we go to properties and go all the way down to tags, we can actually tag our specific objects. So in here we would add edit to add a new tag here, add tag and we can say environments equals development. So we can add multiple tags in here if we want to. Again, cost center equals it. Maybe we can put confidential is false so we can add a bunch of tags on a specific object so we can save changes on there. So we've added our tags. All right, let's close that out. And of course, we're on our object here if we scroll down. Now we can see our individual tags, the Keys, our environment confidential and cost center and the value for each development false it. All right. So that's how you add tags to a specific object here. Now, if you want to add tags to multiple objects, we can, of course, click here and Jpeg and here, and then we can do actions and we can do edit tags right here and we can add specific tags to all three of those objects. All right. So if we do environments is development, we add another tag. Confidential is false, and maybe that's good enough for us. All right. So if we scroll down and of course, you see the three objects that we're going to add the tag on, we hit save changes and we've just added tags to all three of those images. So if we scroll down and find which one it was, I think it was maybe this one go down to tags and there we go. We just added tags to this specific object. Now again, the benefit of tags is that we can start limiting access to our objects based upon those tags. So for example, if we went up to Iam and click on Iam and then we're going to create a new policy. So we'll create policy here. And then we're going to do is select Json because I already have the Json pre-written. So I'm going to delete that and we'll go over here and you can see that I have a policy already. So this is an example policy. What we need to do is get rid of principal. We'll delete that in there. The action is S3 get object. The resource is Amazon S3 Deepdive slash star, which means anything inside of the bucket only if it has a tag of environment as the key with a value of development. All right. So we're going to copy this and we're going to paste that in here. And what we're going to do is get rid of principal, because that doesn't apply here. And now we have our policy. So ID is example policy. We have the effect of allow the action is S3 get object. The resource is going to be our bucket with any object, right? We have the slash star, which is a wild card. It means anything inside that bucket and we will only get access to all objects inside the bucket if that object has a tag key of environments with a value of development. All right. So we go over here, click next, we're going to provide a name. So access to dev objects. And then we'll scroll down and say, create policy. Now what we can do is provide this policy to any of our users. So if we were using Iam or we're using SSL or we're using an IDP in order to access our AWS account, we can assign this particular policy to our users and then they would only be able to access objects inside of S3 that have that specific tag that we added to it with environments and development. So that's how we tag our objects and that's how we use those tags for security purposes to limit who can access those objects inside of our S3 bucket.

---

### Lecture: Requester Pays

All right. Welcome to this topic, where we are going to talk about a feature of Amazon S3 called Requester Pays. Now, Requester Pays is a feature that allows the owner of an S3 bucket to shift the data transfer and the request costs to the party that's accessing the data. All right. So this is quite a unique feature of Amazon S3 and honestly, I've never seen anybody use it, but I'm sure there are plenty of folks out there that do. So let's take a look here. All right. So what exactly is requester pay? Well, usually when we have data transferred from an S3 bucket, the bucket owner is going to, you know, bear the costs associated with that transfer. Now, there is a feature called Requester Pays that allows the bucket owner to shift all those data transfer requests to the user that is requesting the data. Right. And usually that's going to be in another account. Now, this feature is probably going to be pretty handy for you if you regularly share large volumes of data with partners and collaborators, instead of you having to pay for all that data transfer each time that your partners access the data, those costs are actually billed to the requester AWS account instead. Now, it's important to note that while requester pays takes care of the data transfer costs, the bucket owner is still responsible for the costs that are associated with storing that data inside the bucket itself. So that means even if your partners are paying for pulling the data from your bucket, you still pay for keeping that data stored in your own S3 bucket. Now, the other thing I wanted to mention about requester pays is that when you do enable this feature on your bucket, anonymous access to the bucket is no longer allowed, right? Because any requests for data inside of this bucket must be by an authenticated user in AWS. And that's because, well, AWS needs to know who to charge for that request. All right. So let's take a look at it. We've got our bucket over here and this bucket is owned by this account. One, two, three, four, five, six, 789, 012. And we've got a partner account over here. Maybe it's a partner that we do business with quite frequently, and they have their own AWS account. Now, inside of that partner account, we've got different users and roles and stuff like that, right? For those users to access their own account. In this case, we're just using a user name, Brian and this user name Brian performs a get object against a large volume of data inside of our bucket. Now, in this case, the bucket owner meaning us, we are still responsible for the data storage costs, right? So if we're storing terabytes and terabytes of data and that's the data that we're sharing with partners, you know, we still bear the brunt of that cost in our own accounts. So we're still charged for storing that data in our bucket. However, in this case, since Brian accessed our bucket and the user Brian lives in our partner account, that partner account is responsible for the data transfer costs that were performed by our user in their accounts. All right, so very simple but powerful feature for Amazon S3 Very handy. Again, if you are sharing large amounts of data with your partners quite frequently, allow them to take the costs of requesting and transferring that data outside of S3 while you continue to pay for the storage costs itself. So a pretty short lecture on this one. There's not a whole lot to requester pays, but we're going to jump into the demo just to kind of showcase how you would set this up.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Requester Pays

All right. Back in the console, very quick demo just to showcase where you would configure requester pays for your S3 bucket. Now again we're back in the Amazon S3 console and you see a list of our buckets. I'm going to go into our bucket Amazon S3 deep dive. And underneath of there I'm going to go to properties. And we're going to scroll almost all the way down to the bottom where we have the option of requester pays. Now there aren't many options for this. You can basically enable it or disable it. All right. So to enable it you would click on edit. You would simply enable it by clicking this and click Save Changes. So that's as easy as it gets. Now of course what you want to do is share your bucket with other accounts and then give them the ability to access the objects inside of your bucket. And then whenever they access those objects, then their accounts will be billed for any of the costs associated with accessing and downloading those objects that currently live in your bucket. Now, keep in mind that you're still going to pay for any of these objects that live inside of your bucket. You're going to pay for those storage costs, but now they will be responsible for all the transfer costs and requests that they make from their account into the bucket that lives in your account.

---

### Lecture: Student Challenge Solution - Working with Objects

All right, Welcome to the Next Student Challenge, where we are going to start working with our objects. So let's take a look at our student challenge. So marketing is requesting a copy of the world map Jpeg file so they can make updates to the home page. However, your Help desk just issued you a new laptop and you need to download the file directly from S3 so you can send it over to the marketing team. A few other things in here we need to take care of The cloud Engineering team has been notified that the transportation stats dot CSV is actually an older version and it's asked you to delete it from the bucket. And finally, the accounting department is complaining that they cannot properly allocate costs to certain departments due to the lack of tags on our S3 buckets. Now they have standardized on a tag key of cost center and they've allocated each department an identifier to be used on tag resources. Marketing just happens to be 0884. So the instructions for this one will start off at the top. Use the AWS console or the CLI to download the world map Jpeg file from the bucket. So let's go over to our bucket here and we're going to go find our world map. I believe that was under home page. And here's a world map here. So we click on our object here. Now we can click on Open to actually view our world map here. All right. However we want to download it, we can simply do download right here and it's going to download it in our browser. All right. So that's the easiest way we can do it. There are other ways you can do it as well. If, for instance, the object was public, you could click on this URL right here, but it is not public. So we get an access denied. And you can also go back here, click on world map and you should be able to download it using the button right here for download. Okay, so multiple ways we can go retrieve objects. Now of course, if you are retrieving objects from an application or an EC2 instance or something like that, we can definitely go and use the Sri. All right, so we be able to use the S3, Amazon Deepdive bucket, blah blah blah. And then world map Jpeg. We'll be able to use that, especially if you're using like the AWS CLI and things like that. All right. So that's the easiest way to download and we've successfully downloaded the object. All right, So let's go back to the bucket here. Let's check out our next requirement. So store the file locally on your system. Cool. We did that. Now we need to go delete the transportation stats dot csv file from the bucket. So we go back into the bucket and I believe that was under data. And here's our file here. We can simply click it right here and do delete and it's going to ask us if we want to delete it at the bottom. We're going to type in delete and we're going to say delete objects. Now keep in mind that since we have versioning enabled on this bucket, another way we could have done this is instead of deleting the file is we could have simply overwritten that file with a newer version and it would have kept multiple versions of that file. And when we retrieve it, it would have always retrieved the latest version. However, we haven't gotten to versioning yet, so we won't do that in this challenge. All right. So we're going to close that out and notice that the object is now gone. All right. So let's go back to our website and finally tag the newly created website bucket with the proper tag to indicate the cost should be absorbed by the marketing department. All right. So let's scroll back up here. Looks like we have a tag key of cost center, so I'm going to go ahead and highlight that and copy it. So let's go into our bucket now in order to tag our bucket, we're going to go under properties and then we're going to scroll down and find tags right here. This tag is going to tag it directly to the bucket and not the individual objects. So I'm going to click on edit and we're going to add tag here. The key is going to be our cost center, and our value here is going to be that 0884 indicates that it is the marketing team and we can click on Save Changes. So now if we scroll down again, we have one tag associated with this bucket cost center and 0884. Now again, this tags the bucket directly. It doesn't necessarily tag the individual objects. If you want to tag the objects, you can go into objects. You can click on one of the objects here. You can scroll down and you can find tags specific for that object. All right. So if you wanted to add a tag to this specific object, you would do it underneath of the individual object. All right. So I think that wraps up this student challenge and this student challenge. We were able to download files directly from S3, We deleted a file and then we also went and tagged the bucket with a specific tag key and a value to indicate that this is a marketing bucket and they should absorb the costs for our accounting department.

---

*Section 6 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
