<!-- Section 4 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 4 OF 15: Amazon S3 Storage Classes
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon S3 Storage Classes

All right. Welcome to this next section where we are going to introduce storage tiers for Amazon S3. Now, when you think about S3, you probably immediately thinking about how we're going to store all of our data and of course, retrieve all of our data. But what you may not think about is that from an Amazon S3 perspective, one tier doesn't necessarily fit them all. And so different users in our organization or throughout different organizations may have different needs for Amazon S3. Imagine, if you will, a large wardrobe in your closet. We have different sections for our different types of clothing. We have winter clothes, we have summer clothes, former attire, etcetera. And each of those are selected based upon the current weather condition or our need. Now, when it comes to users and or organizations that need to store data in S3, well, we're also going to have vastly different use cases. Now, you might have, for example, a user on the left that needs long term storage of data. Just to meet compliance laws and regulations. But they will rarely, if ever, actually retrieve or read those files. That's one specific use case. Then you might have a use case. That's quite the opposite of that one. With our user on the right here that needs immediate access to our data for our database. And then of course, here in the middle we have a user that stores large video files, maybe movies or TV shows, something like that. And we need to distribute them quickly around the world for streaming services. Now all of these use cases are quite different here, and each one of them would benefit from different features or speed to access. While I'm sure all of them would be concerned by minimizing costs as well. So that's really the benefit we get from using Amazon S3 and all this different storage classes that Amazon S3 is going to provide us. So to meet the needs of those users, Amazon S3 is going to offer us distinct storage classes. And each one of these storage classes is designed for a unique set of needs that's going to cater to different applications and use cases. Now you'll have tiers in Amazon S3 for things like frequently accessed data, and maybe it's here that supports data with unknown or changing access patterns and even tiers that are better suited for long term backup and archival data. Now each one of these tiers is going to be purpose built for different types of access patterns and cost constraints for us. So, for example, if you need to access your data very frequently, S3 is going to offer us a tier for things like high durability availability and performance object storage for that frequently access data. But what if you're looking for a more economical option for storing infrequently accessed data, maybe some backup storage or things for compliance or logs or those kind of things. Amazon S3 also offers storage classes for this long term data that are more cost effective solutions. So in short, Amazon S3 is not just about providing space for your data uploading data. It's about offering a solution that fits like a glove fitting perfectly with your unique data storage needs and your budget considerations. Now let's talk about storage classes. But more in a general sense, without getting into the specifics yet. Now, when referred to storage classes, we're talking about distinct categories or tiers within a data storage system. And each one of these are going to be designed to meet specific needs concerning performance, availability and durability. So imagine if all the data in the world was treated the same, regardless of how frequently it's accessed or how crucial it is for operations. Well, that would really be very inefficient and quite frankly, a waste of resources. So that's where storage classes come in. They provide the right environment for a data based upon our specific requirements. Now, whether you need high speed access to your data for things like real time processing or just durability for things like crucial backups, there's a storage class designed to meet all those specific needs. Now let's also consider another vital aspect of storage classes retrieval speeds and costs. Just like if you're shipping a package, express delivery costs more than standard shipping because it's faster in terms of S3, Different storage classes offer varying retrieval speeds at different costs. Some storage classes in S3 are going to be designed for data that needs to be accessed instantly, which typically incurs a little bit higher cost. Other storage classes are going to cater to data that isn't accessed frequently, and hence the retrieval may take a little bit longer, but it's at a lower cost for your organization. So it's all about striking the right balance between speed, cost and your specific requirements when you are choosing a storage class in S3. So what we're going to do is in our following slides, we're going to dive deeper into the specific storage classes and how they're going to cater to those varying needs. But first, before we dive into the specifics, it's important to clarify one fundamental aspect. Storage classes are defined at the object level and not the bucket level. So this concept may seem a little bit trivial, but it's actually quite significant. So to provide a little bit of context in Amazon, S3 data is going to be stored as objects within the buckets that we talked about already. We have our buckets that we create and we give it a name and we choose a region and of course we start uploading our files into those buckets and each one of those files become an object. Now you might kind of think that you have to assign one storage class to the entire bucket, right? Well, that's not exactly true. In reality, each individual object inside of a bucket can actually be assigned its own storage class. So again, storage classes are assigned per object and not the entire bucket. So this means that you can have a bucket that contains multiple objects and, well, most buckets do. But each one of those objects could live in a different storage class. It all depends on the needs of those individual objects and not necessarily the bucket as a whole. So this flexibility in Amazon, S3 allows us to optimize each object storage based upon its unique access pattern and its life cycle, which ultimately leads to more efficient use of resources and potential cost savings. We all want to use this service and let's be honest, we all want to pay as little as possible to use this service. So now with this understanding, let's move over to introduce the specific storage classes that are offered by Amazon S3 So we've got our storage classes listed on the screen here, and you can see immediately, well, it seems like a lot. There are seven different storage classes that are available in Amazon S3 today. And actually there's another storage class which isn't listed on here, but it's kind of being deprecated, so we're not really going to talk about it. You do have the option to select what's called reduced redundancy, but we're not going to talk about it because that's old. Amazon's getting rid of that in favor of some of the newer storage classes. So let's quickly just touch on each one of these. We're going to dive deep into every single storage class in this course because, well, it is an Amazon S3 deep dive course. So we've got our S3 standard storage class. That is our standard class. If you upload objects to a bucket and you don't choose a class, well, you're going to get S3 Standard. And at the same time, S3 standard is the most performance class of them all. So if you do need high performance and you don't really care about storage classes, maybe your data is not going to persist very long. You can just throw it on S3 standard. Now you have S3 standard IA. Now IA stands for infrequently accessed, so you do get a cheaper rate by storing it in infrequently accessed, but you may have to pay to retrieve that data. You also have S3 Intelligent-tiering. We'll touch on that one in a minute. We have S3 one Zone iAa, so we talked about in the introduction of this course that by default whenever you upload objects to Amazon. S3. Amazon is going to replicate that data across three availability zones at a minimum. Well, what one zone IA is, is well, the one zone should give it away. It's only going to put it in one availability zone versus replicating that data across three availability zones. It's also focused on infrequently accessed data. Just by looking at the name, you could probably tell it's probably cheaper because now we're only replicating across devices within a single availability zone and it's focused on infrequently accessed data. Now at the bottom we have our three options for what's called S3 Glacier. So we have instant retrieval, we have flexible retrieval, and we have what's called deep archive. Now, S3 Glacier overall is designed for very long term archival of data. So if you have logs, if you've got legal documents, things that your organization or regulatory compliance just say, you know what, you've got to keep these around for seven years just because, well, that's just the regulations, but it's data that you don't really care about. You can go ahead and stick that in Glacier and you can store that in an incredibly cheap rate. Now, depending on your data, maybe if you think, okay, we may access this or it's a legal hold. So ultimately it will be accessed. We want it right away and you have the option to choose which class depending on the access patterns of that data. So you have instant retrieval, which is exactly what it sounds like. If you need that data, you can get it instantly. You have flexible retrieval that allows you to get your data from like ten minutes all the way up to two hours, depending on the retrieval type that you select. And of course you have deep archive, which means like this is going to be data that we're going to store away for a long time and we're probably not going to use. And again, deep archive is the cheapest across all of our storage classes as well. It's incredibly cheap. But again, we'll talk about all these individual tiers in this section.

---

### Lecture: Confused  What Amazon S3 Storage Class Should I Use   

All right. Now that we've gone through an intro, are you confused yet? Right. You may have some questions in regarding all these different storage classes that we just talked about. Right. You might be thinking to yourself, okay, which is the best option for me, right. Where should I put my data? What storage class should I choose for my particular use case? Right. In your organization you may have different use cases, right? You may have a marketing team that wants to store a bunch of data, or you may have a data analytics team that comes to you and says, I need to store a bunch of data, right? Which storage class should I choose? Which storage class is the cheapest? Right? I just want to store a bunch of data out there and I don't care how often I access it, I just want it to be cheap, right? Which one should I choose? And well, which one gives me the fastest performance, right? If I want to perform some data analytics, or if I have a production workload, which storage class should I use? Well, fear not, because we're going to go through every single one of these storage classes, so you're going to get a much better understanding of what each one offers you and what use cases that you would use for each one of these classes. All right. So stay tuned. And we're going to continue to go on through all of our storage classes.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Standard

All right. So the first S3 storage class that we're going to talk about is our standard tier. Now started talking about standard tier earlier, but it's our general purpose storage for frequently accessed data. This is going to be the highest throughput option that we have in S3. It provides low latency to our data and high throughput to our data. Now this is going to be backed by our SLA for availability. So 99.99% uptime. Again, that's not durability. Durability across the board is going to be our 11 nines. But availability may change throughout our tiers. Again, standard tier is going to be our four nines of availability, and standard tier is really ideal for workloads that need immediate access and higher performance. So if that's your use case on Amazon, S3 is to upload a bunch of objects and then you want to access them frequently, or you have applications that need to access them frequently with low latency, then this is the tier that you're going to want to choose. So let's talk about how data is written. So we already talked about that. When objects are uploaded to Amazon, S3 data is written to multiple devices across a minimum of three availability zones in the S3 region that you choose. So if we look at our graphic here, we have our region, us East one, US two. It doesn't matter where it is, whatever region that you choose to store your data probably going to be closest to you, probably going to be closest to your applications that are going to consume this data. Then, of course, inside of a region, we have our three different availability zones in this example. So when we write our data, so the circle here, Amazon is actually going to write that data to three different availability zones before it actually returns a success. Back to you. So when you upload data, ultimately you're going to get an Http code of 200. That means success. We've written the data. When you get that Http 200 code, that means Amazon has already successfully written that data to three different availability zones and potentially multiple devices within that availability zone. So that's how data is written inside of our standard tier here. So again, standard tier, the default storage class, and it's suitable for most workloads. Objects placed in S3 are going to be automatically placed on S3. Standard. Again, I mentioned that as you're uploading objects, if you do not choose a specific storage class, you're going to get the standard tier. And again, standard tier probably works for most people. So if you don't care about costs or you're not necessarily storing the data for very long, you could probably just use the storage tier and you'll be fine. So what are the ideal files for our standard tier? Well, things like website assets, right? Things that are going to be distributed maybe with CloudFront or some other CDN, maybe video files, data for big data analytics. Again, we're thinking data that needs to be accessed very quickly, very frequently with low latency. We can use standard tier two, right? Application data gaming apps. Image files. Again, think about files that are going to be access frequently need high throughput with low latency. That's where standard tier really comes into play.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Intelligent Tiering

So we've got a question here. What if I don't know how often I'll actually access my data? If you don't know how often you'll access your data when you're using S3? Well, it's best to choose a storage class that can offer you a balance between your cost and your access frequency. However, if you think the frequency of the access will change, well then you can use the special tier called S3 Intelligent-tiering. Now I'm kind of introducing Intelligent-tiering before we've talked about other classes because it actually consumes our standard tier with other tiers as well. And what I mean by that is Intelligent-tiering is a special storage class that can automatically move your data based upon your access frequency. So if you frequently accessing your data for one month and then the next couple of months, maybe you're not accessing it all, that's a perfect use case for Intelligent-tiering where it can automatically move it up a tier if you're accessing it very frequently. So it's available for high throughput, low latency, all those good things. But after you stop using it, Intelligent-tiering can automatically move that to other tiers that are more cost effective for you. So again, this intelligent-tiering is ideal for unknown or changing access patterns for your objects. Really, the idea behind Intelligent-tiering is to help you reduce your storage costs. Again, we can just stick all this stuff into S3 standard and it'll work perfectly fine. But what if we want to move it down a tier so we can save on a little bit of costs? Well, that's where Intelligent-tiering is really going to come in handy for you. Now, the cool thing is with Intelligent-tiering, there's no retrieval charges. And again, just like everything else, it's backed by the 11 nines of durability for Amazon S3. So let's take a little bit closer look here inside of our Intelligent-tiering storage class. We actually have different tiers inside that. So we've got our frequent access tier, we have our infrequent access tier, we have our archive access tier, and we have our deep freeze access tier. There are four different tiers inside of Intelligent-tiering. And if you look at the icons and you'll probably see that throughout the slides, they're actually just consuming the other storage classes that we're going to talk about. So Frequent Access Tier is really just S3 standard that we've already talked about. If you're going to access your data quite a bit, the data is going to be moved onto S3 standard. If you stop using it, we're going to move it into lower tiers. And depending on how long it's been since you've accessed your data, we're going to continue moving it between tiers to save you more and more money. So it's pretty cool. However, once you do access that data, Amazon S3 is going to go ahead and move that back over to Amazon S3 Standard Class, so you can use that and it's much faster access for you. So let's take a look at an example of when we might use Intelligent-tiering. Well, this example, what I'm going to do is we're going to think about an airline flight. So maybe we work for an airline and maybe the back office. We're like, You know what? We're going to start doing some schedule planning. When are our planes going to take off? When are they going to land? What services are we going to provide? As we start creating that data? That data may live in our frequent access. Now we want to fly from this airport. No, we want to use this type of plane or we want to offer this class of service. We're using this data. We're modifying this data quite a bit. Now, whenever the schedule is released, maybe they release it a year ahead and our data kind of moves into infrequent access. Every once in a while, somebody may book a flight a year out in advance, but not very often. So we may move that data to infrequent access. Okay, people aren't using it as much, but we can still move it to frequent access if we need to. All right. So as we get closer and closer to flight departure, the data may move back to frequent access. We have more and more people booking the flight. Maybe we have people canceling the flight, changing flights, upgrades, class, adding friends or family members to their ticket, and then their you know, they're checking in, they're going to the airport, checking luggage, all that good stuff. We're using that data quite a bit so we can move that data to frequent access. So again, we get high throughput, low latency access to that data as we need that data more and more. So after our flight departure, of course, we have our flight arrival and when our flight arrives, maybe we still continue to maintain that data into frequent access. Maybe people are checking in on their loyalty programs to see how many points they got for that flight. Maybe friends and family members are checking on the status of that flight. Hey, did it land? And can I go pick up my family members or friends from the airport? Again, that data is being accessed frequently, so we're going to maintain that inside of frequent access. Now, as we continue to move on, people care less and less about that flight after it's landed safely and everyone's gotten off the plane, maybe after. Porting has been completed from our airline. We can move that data into our archive access. We've pulled the data into our reports. We said, Hey, that was a profitable flight. We had X amount of seats filled, blah blah, blah. But now we don't necessarily care about that data that much because it's already been pulled into a report and that flight has departed and arrived. We've done our reporting. We don't really care and we're not going to use that data very often so we can go ahead and move that into our archive access. So as we moved from frequent access over to infrequent access, and then even further down on the right, when we go to archive access, the data is still the data. It's exact same data, but we just move it to different tiers in order to save on costs. And we do that by the access patterns. So the less and less we use our data, we're going to move it further down to the right down tiers so we can save on costs. So let's talk about ideal files for Intelligent-tiering here. Maybe user generated data. Again, frequent access when it's first created, maybe there's a game going on or something like that. And then after that, maybe we report on a high score or we add that score to your profile and then we really don't care about it that much. So it's going to move on down to that archive tier. Data lakes, log files again, any unknown data or changing access patterns. So again, think about things that are accessed more frequently initially, but then less frequently over time. But if for some reason we need to pull that data back over and access it frequently again, Intelligent-tiering can do that for us. So that's intelligent-tiering.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Standard – Infrequent Access (IA)

All right. Moving on to our next one. Our next one is S3 Standard, infrequent access. And that's abbreviated just by a. So if you see IA, that means infrequent access. So this is for data that's accessed less frequently, hence the name here, but it still requires a media access when we need it. We don't want to stick it somewhere where it takes two hours to retrieve the data if we need access to it immediately. So what we can do is we say, You know what, we don't need this data very often, but when we do, we kind of need it right now. That's what infrequent access allows us to do. Now, IA is really ideal for like things like long term storage backups and disaster recovery files. If you just look at those three examples, especially backups and files, you want them immediately if you actually need them, hey, we need a backup or we need to restore our data. We had a event and we need to recover from this disaster. So we need our disaster recovery files immediately. We can't wait for those files to be restored. So that's what infrequent access is really geared towards, very important files. We are not going to access them, hopefully ever for backups and files, but if we do, we need them immediately. So the benefit of IA is that we have a lower gigabyte storage price. So each gig that we store is cheaper than our other tiers, but it does add a per gig retrieval charge. So if you never have to access that data, well, you got a cheaper storage price for storing that on S3, on IA storage class, and you never have to pay that retrieval charge. So again, think about shipping with UPS or Fedex or DHL. The faster you need things to go, well, the more it's going to cost. So in this case, if you need immediate retrieval for your data, well, S3 is going to charge you some level of a retrieval charge here. So what are some of the benefits and features of AIA? Well, the data is still written to at least three availability zones, and we still have that 11 nines of durability. So we know our files are going to be there when we write those files. The cost per month per gig is less than standard, but again, it introduces our retrieval fees. Now, these retrieval fees aren't terrible. We're going to go over pricing towards the end of this section, but just keep that in mind. So if you see a charge, we're like, Oh, we recovered a lot of different files from AIA and all of a sudden we have this one time charge on there. Well, those are retrieval fees from getting data from some of these other storage tiers. Again, the data is still written across three availability zones. We have our highly durable service here, but again, cheaper storage and retrieval fees in this case. So again, what are the ideal files for standard AIA or backup data files? Maybe big data analytics like long term, after we've already processed that data, maybe we can move that to standard to save on costs. Maybe we don't retrieve that ever. Maybe if we do, it's going to be very infrequently accessed. So those are some ideal files. Again, not an exhaustive list, but just an example of some of these files.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 One Zone – Infrequent Access (IA)

Moving on to S3 one zone, infrequent access, very similar to what we just talked about. But the big difference is that S3 is only going to store your data in a single availability zone, hence the name S3 one zone. Now one zone is going to provide a lower cost storage option. It's cheaper than S3 Standard. It's even cheaper than S3 standard infrequently access. Now it's really suitable for data that's infrequently accessed again, hence the name. But it's really focused on data that can be recreated if it's lost. Again, our data is only written to a single availability zone, so if something were to happen to that availability zone where your data is stored, well, your data is gone. And so you have to think about, okay, now our data is not written across all these availability zones and all that kind of stuff for redundancy. It's only on a single availability zone. Now I get a much cheaper price, 20% less than standard, i.e. that we just talked about. But there is risk associated there where now your data is only in a single AZ one zone. iAa does offer the same low latency and high throughput performance as the other storage classes that we've talked about thus far. But again, you get a cheaper rate, but you introduce risk since it's only written to a single availability zone. So again, similar to our other pictures, you can kind of see if I do write data to my bucket, well, it's only written to that one availability zone. It's not replicated across other Azs, less resilient to AZ failures. If the zone storing the data, experiencing an outage or is destroyed, your data may be lost. Now we'll talk about other features throughout this course where you can maybe still use this and replicate it somewhere else so you do have a copy of it somewhere. But inside of this one region, if you use one zone IA, it's only written to that one availability zone. So what are the ideal files for one zone iAa Things like secondary backup files, not your primary, but a secondary copy of that. Maybe older application data infrequently access data sets for big data analytics and maybe copies of archival data or older documents or things like that. Again, things that can be recreated because, well, you're storing them somewhere else. Notice that all these say like a secondary copy or a copy of something, so you can recreate this data from somewhere else if it's lost here. But this gives you the ability to create a secondary copy that is much cheaper to store.

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Amazon S3 Glacier

So now we've talked about all the S3 storage classes from an S3 perspective. Let's introduce Glacier. Now, this is kind of a history lesson, kind of Back in the old days, back in the old days, you used to have Amazon S3, like all those tiers that we talked about. And then you actually have a separate service called Glacier. Now, Amazon S3 has several tiers available and they were all immediate access. And then you had Glacier, which was completely separate, and you had a 12 plus hour time for data retrieval. Now, again, you could write data directly to Glacier and interact with it as a completely separate service. Or you could use what's called lifecycle rules and we'll talk about that later. To have data moved from S3 service to Glacier. And in that case, you continue to manage your data using the S3 API even though it was moved to Glacier. So that's what a used to be back in the day as customers had more and more use cases for storage, well, started kind of combining these two services more and more. So now Glacier is really just a part of the Amazon S3 service where back in the day it was really treated as a completely separate service. And as a matter of fact, you can actually get to it in the services list by a separate link. You would see Amazon S3 in there, you would see Glacier in there, two different services. Now they're all underneath of S3. So let's take a look at Glacier. Underneath the glacier, we have three different options here. We have glacier instant retrieval. We have flexible retrieval and we have deep freeze. So we're going to go through all three of those.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Glacier - Instant Retrieval

All right. So let's talk about Glacier instant retrieval. Now, the name should give it away a little bit. Glacier is long term archive storage, but it offers us instant retrieval time in milliseconds for our data so we can get access to our data immediately. Now, this is one of the lowest cost storage options on Amazon, and it's really designed for long live archival type data. It is 68% cheaper than S3 Standard-ia As we continue to move down, we're going to give up immediate retrieval time, but we get a lower cost per gig. So S3 Glacier does introduce a retrieval fee and it's per gig and it also has a 90 day minimum storage duration charge. Now what that means is that if you put data on S3 Glacier instant retrieval, you are going to pay for 90 days of that at a minimum. And so that means if I put data on Glacier and then I pull it or retrieve it the next day, I'm going to get charged a minimum of 90 days because it has a minimum storage duration. Again, Glacier, any of the glacier classes are designed for long term archival storage. It's stuff that you don't need very often or if ever, and that's why it's so cheap now. Again, it's designed for rarely, you know, access data, maybe quarterly, maybe even less than that. But it's for data that still requires immediate retrieval. Again, think of archival, think of health care records or those kind of things that we're never going to touch it. But if we do, we want it now kind of thing. So let's take a look at instant retrieval here. One of the ways that we can get our data over to instant retrieval, we can obviously write directly to S3 Glacier instant retrieval when we're uploading our objects to S3. That's obviously one way we can do it, or we can actually use what's called lifecycle rules. And we can say, okay, we want to write our data to S3 standard and then we're going to put a lifecycle rule that says, you know what, 90 days later, I want you to move that data over to S3 Standard IA, And then after it's been on ice for 180 days, then I want you to move that over into Glacier because it's archive data at this point. So those are kind of two different examples of ways that you can get data over to S3 Glacier. Of course, we're not talking about interfaces. We're not talking about, you know, using the CLI or the UI or anything like that. I'm just simply talking about the ways that data ends up on Glacier. You can write it directly or you can use workflows to get it over to Glacier as well. So what are the ideal files for Glacier Instant retrieval? Well, things like history records, financial records, health care archive data research data, legal hold, data data for regulatory compliance. These are things that we may not access very often, or if ever. But if we do want access to it, we want access to it now. We can't wait. We can't wait two hours. We can't wait 12 hours, 24 hours, whatever it takes for some of the other tiers, we want access to it. Now, that also means that we're going to pay for it a little bit, too. If we want instant retrieval, it's going to come at some level of a cost, but we have access to our data immediately.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Glacier - Flexible Retrieval

Let's move over to flexible retrieval now. Flexible retrieval is actually the same service that was originally S3 Glacier back in the day. So when I talked about a history lesson before when we had separate services for Amazon, S3 and Glacier, this is really what Glacier used to be. Again, just like anything Glacier, it's for long term backups and archives of our data. But in this case, flexible retrieval allows us to choose from different retrieval options based upon our needs. So just like, again, UPS or Fedex or DHL, the faster we need things, the more it's going to cost us. We have the option to get expedited retrieval means we can get our data back in about 1 to 5 minutes. We have standard retrieval, which is 3 to 5 hours, and then we have bulk, which is 5 to 12 hours. Now, bulk, I believe, is actually free, and then you pay for the other retrieval options. Those are your retrieval fees. If you need expedited or standard bulk does not actually charge you additional retrieval fees. However, just like anything else in Glacier, you have a 90 day minimum charge here. So again, think long term backups, think long term archive data that you were never access or very rarely access. So ideal files for glacier flexible retrieval here. Again, very similar to before historical records, financial records, health care records, legal documents or just really any other long term archival data here. Keep in mind the difference between instant retrieval and flexible retrieval, where instant retrieval you get access to your data immediately. Flexible retrieval. You actually have to give it a little bit of time before you access your data, but in turn you actually get to store your data a little bit cheaper. So there are, again, costs and benefits to outweigh here.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Glacier - Deep Archive

And finally, the last storage tier that we'll talk about is S3 Glacier Deep Archive. Now, deep Archive is the lowest cost storage class available in Amazon S3. It's incredibly cheap. It's only about maybe a dollar for one terabyte a month. So really, really cheap. Deep archive is really geared towards long term retention. That's maybe access once a year or even less than that. Again, think deep archive, think deep freeze. If you have a refrigerator freezer and a deep freezer at home, you typically put things in a deep freezer that you're going to last for a long time. You're probably not going to touch very often. That's kind of, I guess the idea for the name here, Deep archive is a good replacement for your hardware backup. If you're running like tapes or something like that in your own data center. Deep archive is a great solution to replace that. You do have two retrieval speeds in deep archive. You have standard which is within 12 hours, and then you have bulk retrieval, which is actually within 48 hours. So you do have to wait that long before your data is actually retrieved from deep archive. So again, that's another reason why it's super, super cheap is because, well, it takes a long time to retrieve your data. Ideal files for Glacier Deep freeze rarely access historical records records retained for legal compliance or rarely access archived data things that well, you just have to keep for compliance sake. But you'll probably never ever touch it again. That's really where deep freeze shines. So again, those are our storage classes. We started all the way with S3 Standard and now we're all the way down to Glacier Deep Freeze. So next what we're going to do is we're going to start comparing some of them and see how they compare in terms of feature sets, costs and all that good stuff.

---

### Lecture: Comparing Amazon S3 Storage Classes

So here's just a quick summary of all of our storage classes that we just talked about. Got them all listed here in a very quick summary for each one. Again, S3 Standard general purpose for frequently accessed data Intelligent-tiering really focus on that cost saving by auto tearing our data based upon our access patterns. So the less we access our data, it's going to move over to the right, to our infrequently accessed tiers and it's going to save us money. But as soon as we access data, boom, Amazon is going to move it back to the left, over to our S3 standard tier, our frequently accessed tier, and we're going to pay that charge. We have S3 standard IA, low cost storage for less frequently accessed data, but it still has instant retrieval. One zone infrequently access data in only one availability zone, further cost savings. But again, we introduce the risk by only saving it in one availability zone and then we introduce our glacier storage classes, low cost storage for long term data. And again, instant retrieval has instant retrieval time, millisecond retrieval time for our data, flexible retrieval again, similar. We have low cost storage for long term data, minutes to hours retrieval and finally deep archive, which we just talked about data archival that is rarely accessed. So I present to you our S3 storage classes here. So let's take a look at them in terms of data access frequency. I've got them all listed here, so the more frequently accessed data needs to go over to the left, the less frequently accessed data is going to be moved towards the right. So if you have, again, things that need high throughput access immediately, they're going to go on S3 standard. And as you need data less and less and less, you're going to continue moving down the stack to the right, ultimately down to deep archive, which you rarely, if ever, access. So a good comparison here. If we compare the features here that we've talked about through this, we've got them all listed across the top, we've got our durability notice. We have 11 nines of durability across the board here. Now we have availability listed for all of them. And notice it's a little bit different. S3 Standard 99.99 Intelligent-tiering 0.9 S3 Infrequent access 99.9. And we get down to one zone iAa again because we're only running to a single availability zone. 99.5 You've got availability zones listed out here. Notice that one zone IA is the only storage class where data is not replicated and written across three or more availability zones. You've got your retrieval times across here. We've got immediate all the way until we get to glacier flexible retrieval, then we move to minutes to hours and then even down to deep archive, which could be up to two days. Retrieval costs are broken out here. First couple, we have no retrieval costs. And then as we get into our IA and our deep archive and things like that, we do have a retrieval cost, minimum storage time. We don't have a minimum storage time for S3 Standard or Intelligent-tiering. But as we get to things like IA or Glacier, we do introduce minimum storage times and finally the minimum billable object size. So that's another important aspect when you're thinking about the data that's going to be stored on S3 is you have to think about the minimum billing object size. So if you look at AIA, it says 128 K Well, if you put a file out there that's only 40 K, Amazon's going to charge you for 128 K because that's the minimum object size out there. So for AIA it's 128. For one zone AIA it's 128 K for Glacier instant retrieval, it's 128. But as we get to flexible retrieval and deep archive, you can see the minimum billable object size is actually smaller down to only 40 K. So just a great chart to consider when you're thinking about which storage class that you are going to select. That wraps up our section that focuses on introducing our Amazon S3 storage classes. Hopefully at this point you feel a lot better and understanding the different options that you have available to you and you feel better about where your data should go based upon your different use cases in your organization. Again, remember, each object individually can be selected for a different storage class so you don't have to worry about organizing your buckets for Glacier or Standard or Intelligent-tiering or anything like that. You just focus on the objects themselves. So thanks for watching. Hopefully this was beneficial and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Working with Amazon S3 Storage Classes

All right. In this demo, we're going to go over storage classes. So I want to show you how you can work with existing objects and change the storage class of those existing objects, as well as choose the storage class of when you upload new objects to your bucket. So I am in Amazon S3 and I have a list of my buckets in this account and we're going to work with this bucket called my data lookup bucket dash BC. All right, so if I open up that one, you can see I've got some PDFs in there, right? Customer sales. January, February, March, April, May, June. All right. Now, all those are tight PDFs. You can see when they're modified and you can see the storage class. More importantly over here on the right. Now, notice that these are all standard and say, for example, it's already past the middle of the year and well, we've already performed analytics on all these files and we don't necessarily need to use them anymore. We still want to keep them around, but we're not going to use them. We're going to access them very infrequently. All right. So in order to save some data, what we want to do is migrate those over to another storage class. So what I can do here is I can pick and choose individual files if I want, and I'm going to go ahead and pick all six just for the fun of it. And under actions here, I can choose edit storage class. All right, so I'm going to click that. It's going to bring up our edit storage class. Menu here. And then what we're going to do is we're going to scroll down and of course, we get all of our options for the storage classes that are available in S3. So we have all the ones that we've talked about Standard Intelligent-tiering, AIA, one zone, all that good stuff. All right. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to choose intelligent. So what I'm going to do for this use case is I'm going to go ahead and choose one zone IA because, well, these are recreatable, right? Maybe our app can recreate these reports if we need to. And so I'm going to go ahead and choose one zone IA and then I'm going to scroll down here. We have a list of the specified objects and I'm going to simply click on Save changes down here and it's going to modify all of our objects and move them over to that storage. So if I click close here right now, you can see all of our objects. But now over here on the right, you can see they're all on one zone. IA All right, so that's a super easy way that you can use to modify the storage class of your objects that exist in your bucket. Now, another way that you can do that is choose the storage class when you're uploading a new file. All right, so if I click on upload here and we're going to drag and drop maybe the report from July and August 2023. All right. So I'm going to drag and drop that over here. I'm going to scroll down. Destination is our bucket, right? We have information about our bucket, right? I don't have versioning turned on this one. We have default encryption object locked, all that good stuff. But under properties down here at the bottom, we have the opportunity to choose the storage class of these objects when we actually upload them. All right. So maybe in this case, since they're fairly newer reports, maybe you want to go ahead and put them under Intelligent-tiering just so it can automatically move that to a lower class tier when we need to. All right. So I'm going to go down here and I'm going to click on upload. All right? So it's going to upload our files. It should be relatively quick. They are pretty small files, so that's already done. I'm going to click close. Then if you look at our objects, we have eight objects in our bucket. We have customer sales January through May or June that are in our one zone. iAa right here and now we have our two new files that we've added to Intelligent-tiering storage class right here. All right. So again, easy way in order to modify your storage class for existing objects and of course, how you choose your storage class when you're uploading new objects. Now, during the class, we're going to learn more about how we can automatically do this right, using things like lifecycle rules. And we already learned about how Intelligent-tiering is going to take care of that for us and other ways that we can move our data between our storage classes automatically. But in this case, I want to show you how you can do that manually on existing objects and any new objects. All right, so that's it for this demo. Hopefully it was useful and we'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Student Challenge Solution - Amazon S3 Storage Classes

Hey everyone, welcome to the next student challenge that's focused on storage classes. So let's go ahead and take a look at what our student challenge is. So after some updates, the marketing team no longer wants to use our course Cover.jpg file, but they don't want to get rid of it entirely. However, they do want you to change the storage tier in an effort to reduce costs. So your first task is going to be to move the course. Cover.jpg file to use S3 Standard IA Storage class. Now, additionally, marketing needs to add a few additional files that they might need for the website. These should be uploaded to the blog prefix or the folder and use the Intelligent-tiering storage class so your instructions here are update the course cover to use standard storage class and then upload the three new files. Again, the three new files can be found over here under resources. If you scroll down, you can also find them right here as well and simply download them. All right, So let's first tackle the course Cover.jpg. So we'll go back to our bucket here and our course Cover.jpg was under our home page, I believe, and here it is right here. And so what we need to do is modify the storage class of this particular object. So to do that we would click into the object and then we can scroll down and we can find the storage class. Now the storage class is standard. So the easiest way to modify that is go over here to edit and then we can choose our new storage class. So in this case, we want to change it to standard AIA. So we're going to scroll down, hit save changes here. It's going to move our object over to the new storage class. You can hit close here. And so we're still looking at our object here. If we scroll down now, we can see our storage class is actually standard AIA, so that's the easiest way to do it. The other way to do it is you can actually click it right here and do actions and you can edit storage class from right here as well. So multiple ways you can do it if you're using the AWS management console. All right. So let's take a look at our second task. Upload the three new files working Jpeg, laptop, Jpeg and site dot jpeg to the blog prefix and use the Intelligent-tiering storage class. All right, so we need to choose that storage class when we update those three new files. So go back to our bucket and we're going to go into our blog prefix right here where we already have one file here, but we need to go ahead and add our three new ones. So I've already downloaded those, so I'm going to grab those on my other screen. I'm just going to drag and drop them over here. So we have our three new files, laptop, Jpeg site, Jpeg, working Jpeg now in order to choose the storage class that we want to use, we're going to scroll down to the bottom under properties and we can select the storage class for these particular objects. Now for these, we want to choose Intelligent-tiering, So we're going to select that right here and we can scroll back down and we're going to hit upload. So by selecting the storage class, when we upload our object, they are initially placed on that selected storage class that we choose. And then they will continue to be on that storage class until we need to move it or we actually delete it from S3 altogether. So if we click on close here, you can see we are in our blog prefix here and we have our three objects right here. If I click on laptop Jpeg, we scroll down, we can see immediately that we are in the storage class of Intelligent-tiering and notice that we are in the access tier right now, right? So as this object continues to age and we don't use this object, Intelligent-tiering may move that over to like an archive tier. Okay. So but up front you can see we can immediately upload objects and specify what storage class that we want to use when we actually put data into our Amazon S3 bucket. So that wraps up this student challenge here. So by completing this challenge, we learned how to modify our files to use the proper S3 storage class. And we also learned how to upload files directly to a specific storage class as well.

---

*Section 4 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
