<!-- Section 13 of 20 | Course: ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 13 OF 20: Developer Tools Services You Should Know
**Course:** `ultimate-aws-certified-generative-ai-developer-professional`

---
### Lecture: AWS CDK

Now let's talk about the AWS Cloud Development Kit, or CDK, which allows you to define your cloud infrastructure in a familiar programming language, such as JavaScript or TypeScript, Python, Java, and .NET. So you may be saying, "Hey, it looks like this is overlapping with CloudFormation, because CloudFormation we can define the cloud infrastructure using YAML. But now we can do it using a programming language. So what is this?" Well, this is something that supersedes CloudFormation, as we'll see in a second. So let's say we want to define our infrastructure using TypeScript, and so we have this code right here in which we are defining three different things. We are defining constructs, and so there are high level components that we can use thanks to the CDK. So the first construct we're using is a VPC. So we create a new VPC, we give it a name, and we give it three AZs. And this creates a VPC for us which is going to contain some pre-made configuration. Then we define an ECS cluster. And the ECS cluster is named MyCluster and has a link to the VPC we just defined. And then we define an application load-balanced Fargate service, so this is a Fargate service with an ALB which is linked to the cluster we just defined. We define how much CPU, how many tasks we want, so six, the task image options, the memory limits, and that we want a public ALB. So all of this is defined using a programming language, which means that if we don't have functioning code if the code doesn't compile, then it's going to give us an error, and that means that our template cannot be generated. But if the code can be compiled because it is sound and typesafe, then it is going to be compiled into a CloudFormation template. It could be either JSON and YAML. And so therefore, we are using the CDK to define CloudFormation templates in the backend. But this is allowing us to be a lot more flexible about it and use a programming language. So that also means that we can deploy infrastructure and application runtime code together. So this is great for Lambda functions, great for Docker containers in ECS or EKS. So this is a revolution because CloudFormation template is YAML, it's not typesafe, you can make errors, and you only know at the very end if it worked or not. But with the CDK, you can define those using constructs and a programming language. So if you want a diagram, then we have our application constructs. It could be Lambda functions, DynamoDB, Amazon S3, ECS, some step functions, and so on. And we can use programming languages, such as Python, TypeScript, Java, .NET. We write our CDK file, I guess, and then we synthesize this using the CDK CLI into a CloudFormation template that we will apply into CloudFormation to define our infrastructure. So it is a step above CloudFormation and makes it way easier to work with CloudFormation. So you may ask me, what is the difference between CDK and SAM? Well, SAM is going to be serverless focused, and we are going to write our templates declaratively in JSON or YAML, and this is great for quickly getting started with Lambda. It also leverages CloudFormation in the backend, okay? But the focus of SAM is Lambda function and serverless applications. For the CDK, well, it is a super set of CloudFormation, so this supports every AWS services out there. And you're going to write your infrastructure with a programming language you know, for example, TypeScript, Python, Java, and .NET And it also leverages CloudFormation because it generates CloudFormation. So hopefully the difference is clear between these two services. There's also a way where you can combine the CDK and the SAM framework. So you can use the SAM CLI to locally test your CDK applications. How? Well, first we must run cdk synth, and when we do that, we have a Lambda function say, in the CDK application, we run the cdk synth command and this is going to generate a CloudFormation template that has been synthesized from the CDK. But then, thanks to this CloudFormation template, we can use the same framework and do SAM local invoke reference the CloudFormation template and call the function. And these two frameworks work really well together. So in the next lecture, we're going to do a hands-on on CDK. And with this hands-on, we're going to deploy an application that allows us to deploy an S3 bucket on which the users can put an image. This S3 bucket is going to trigger a Lambda function which is going to send an API call to Rekognition to analyze the image and get the results back from Rekognition, and then the Lambda function is going to save the results to Amazon DynamoDB. And all of this is going to define all from within a CDK script. So let's go and do this in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CDK - Hands On

So just as a quick reminder we're going to use the CDK to create an S3 bucket, a Lambda function that will invoke Amazon Recognition and DynamoDB tables to save the results of our action all using the Amazon CDK. So let's go. Okay, so let's practice using the CDK. For this I'm going to use CloudTrail to be able to run commands against my AWS environment. So click on CloudTrail and CloudTrail is getting ready. And in the meantime you can go under CDK and open the steps.sh to get started and run some commands. So first of all, what we have to do is to initialize and install the CDK on our environments. So for this, we do a sudo npm install and we install the aws-cdk-lib. So let's paste this and press Enter. And now we have installed the CDK lib on our computer. So that means that if I type cdk now we're going to get some commands out of it as you can see. Right now we get some error because we have to specified which CDK command we want, but it's working. So next we're going to create a directory called cdk-app and then we're going to change directory to go in it. And this is very important to do so. Next we're going to initialize our CDK application. So for this the command is cdk init. Then we specify app and then we specify a language. This is what we will write the infrastructure in. So we have JavaScript but we can also have for example, Python. But we chose JavaScript in this example. Okay, now everything is done. So we're going to verify that it has been successfully initialized by doing cdk ls, which should return one thing, it will return the CdkAppStack. Alright, that's perfect. So next what we have to do is to actually copy the content of the cdk-app-stack into the lib directory. So if you do ls lib, you'll see there's a cdk-app-stack. So let's go into this lib directory. We're going to remove the cdk-app-stack, and then we touch the cdk-app-stack to create a new file and we'll use nano to edit this file. So if you see nano command not found. Just do sudo yum install nano. Nano is a text editor. Yes. Nano is a text editor, which will allow us to edit some files. So let's clear this and we'll do again, nano cdk-app-strack.js. And now we're going to paste the content of lib, this file. So let's copy-paste it. Yes, please paste multiline. Exit. And Save, so Control + X and Y. Okay, just make sure you're good by doing a cat. And cat allows you to see that, yes, you have indeed copied all the content into this file. Okay, so now let's do a little look into what this file is because this is the core of the CDK. So at the top, we require the CDK library and then we require some specific constructs from CDK such as S3, IAM, Lambda, DynamoDB, as well as more. So we scroll down and then we see that thanks to code we start deploying and defining our infrastructure. For example, here we define an S3 buckets and we say this is an S3 bucket, and by the way, the removal policy is destroy this. So that means that please destroy this bucket when the stack is destroyed. And we have an output that's defined out of it called CfnOutputs. And the name is buckets and the value is the bucket name. And so this is going to be converted into CloudFormation but this is programmed as code. This is because the CDK knows what to expect to create an S3 bucket, and so therefore you can define different parameters. And this allows you to be a lot more versatile, a lot more agile when creating your stacks because you just write code, you don't write CloudFormation. So if you know a little bit of JavaScript or you know a little bit of Python, you may prefer this method. So then we go ahead, we create a role for Lambda. So we call this one role and then we define how it's working to work. And then there's a function called addToPolicy where we can add a policy statement into a role. So we've done this in two steps, in two lines of code, one and two. And this really shows the power of mixing programmation and then at the end, compiling into CloudFormation. So we have a DynamicDB table yet again we created, we defined the partition key, the removal policy as well as that becomes an output. Then we have a Lambda function. We define the runtime, the role, some environment variables that are linked directly to the table we have defined from before. And the buckets we're defining right after, or right before right here. So it really shows again the power of using programming languages. We can add event sources to say that the Lambda function is going to be triggered from Amazon S3. And then we have some very good shorthand such as we can grant read-write access to the Lamnda function on the bucket and the table by just having one line and using this function instead of figuring out what is the correct IAM policy. So that's really the power of using the CDK right here. Okay. So once we're done, we need to actually set up the lamb function that will be invoked. Okay, so to do so from the lib directory, we go one level up. So now we're back into our top-level directory. We're going to create a Lambda directory and go in it. And then we're going to create a file called index.py in it by doing touch index.py. Then we're going to edit it, so nano index.py and we copy the content of Lambda index.py. So let's take everything from here and paste it and then paste it. And then Control + X, Y Enter. Okay. So now our index.py file is properly set up as you can see. This is perfect. We can have a look at what it does. So what it does that it detects labels in images using Amazon Recognition. So it's going to actually look at the image coming from S3 and then run it through recognition. And then finally write the data, the target data into DynamoDB. Okay, so this function is now created. Now we need to bootstrap the CDK application, bootstrap CDK overall. So this is something you have to do once per account per region, and of course you should be running this command from a directory one level up because there is a cdk.json file in it which contains some important information around how we want to be set up. Let's go back, we run the CDK bootstrap again. Paste this. Press Enter. And this is going to create all the necessary stuff in your accounts to run the CDK. So it actually goes into CloudFormation. So if you open the CloudFormation service, so CloudFormation in here. As you see right now, there's a stack being created called the CDK Toolkit. And this is what's necessary for CDK to work. So if you look at resources in here, you can see that there is SSM parameter, IAM roles, ECR repository, IAM role, IAM roll, and then an S3 bucket. A bit of necessary stuff for the CDK to work. This is something you have to do once per region and per account. Next, we're going to run cdk synth to get the target CloudFormation template that is going to be generated out of our stack. So by running cdk synth, what's going to happen is that we're actually going to get a whole CloudFormation template, as you can see in here, an entirely a big one. And that contains everything we need. So it has an S3 bucket it has S3 bucket notifications being set up. It also has a Lambda function and so on, and IAM role and SSM parameters. So the idea here is that this is what's going to be deployed to CloudFormation, and we can preview it, but we don't need to necessarily do it. And finally, we need to deploy the CDK stack. So we'll run CDK deploy. And this is actually going to generate this CloudFormation template and deploy it into CloudFormation. So you say, yes, here are all the things that are going to be created. Everything looks good, let's say yes. And press Enter. And now is going to actually deploy a new CloudFormation template that is going to be representing our stack. So if I go in here, we have the CdkAppStack, actually yes, being created. And if we have a look at our resources, there's going to events and resources and refresh. We can see everything that is being created such as the IAM role, the S3 bucket, DynamoDB table, and so on. So let's wait until everything is created. Okay, so my stack is fully created and if we refresh this page, we see we have 11 resources being created. So what's important to us is going to be the S3 bucket and the DynamoDB table. So let's go into the S3 bucket right here, open it in a new tab, and then the DynamoDB table as well. So the idea is that whenever we upload a file into this S3 bucket, the Lambda function that get deployed will be run and then we will have some data in our DynamoDB table. So for this right now, if you go into explore table items, we don't have any items, but let's do a quick experiment and see if everything is working. So we go into these buckets and I'm going to upload the file. Add files, and then underneath my code, I'm going to choose the cdk, images and then we'll choose penguins. So let's upload this file in our buckets. And we're done. So this file is right here. I'm going to open it right here to show you what it looks like. Let's go, Preference, Allow. Okay, so this is just a man with some penguins. And so this is sent into our S3 buckets. And then what's going to happen is that our Lambda function is being run. It's going to be triggered because S3 sent a notification to our Lambda function and then recognition is going to be invoked. And finally, if I refresh this, you see that now there's one item return in my table. So the image is penguins.jpeg and then we can have a look at the fact that a penguin, a mobile phone, animal, bird, person, man, adult, male, glove and shoe all get detected in my images. And you can play a bit more. You can, for example, go back to your buckets and upload two more files. So we could upload kid_and_pigeons and swans and upload them. Okay, we good? So they've been uploaded and very quickly I go back into the DynamoDB. And now I see that more of my images have had item detected in them. And you can have a look at this table on your own. So that's pretty cool. We've seen how to deploy a full stack using the CDK. Now to clean up everything, what we have to do is that we have to empty our S3 buckets. So let's take all these files and yes, we say yes, I want to permanently delete them. So that's step one. And then step two, to clean everything up we're going to do cdk destroy. So back into CloudShell, do cdk destroy and is going to destroy everything for you. Yes, and you're good to go. All right, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS Access Keys, CLI and SDK

So we have seen how to access AWS using the Management console, which is the Web interface that we've done so far in this course, but there are, actually, three different options to access AWS. So the first one is a Management console, as we've seen, and is protected by your username, password, maybe multifactor authentication. Then there is the CLI, Command Line Interface, and this is something we will set up on our computer, and this is protected by access keys, and access keys our credentials we're going to download in a few seconds that will allow us to access AWS from our terminal. Then, finally, there is the SDK, the AWS Software Development Kit, which is used whenever you want to call APIs from AWS from within your application code. And again, these will be protected by the exact same access keys. So how do we generate access keys? Well we will do this through the Management console, and users are responsible for their own access keys, and access keys, from the user perspective, there are secret, just like a password, so if you generate your own access keys do not share them with your colleagues, because they can generate their own access keys as well. So really make sure that you treat your access key ID just like your username, and your secret access key just like your password, you do not share them with other people. So when you go into the Management console, you get access key as there's a button to create access keys, and then it gives you the right to download it in the very second. And so, for example, here's a fake access key ID and a fake secret access key, and these, when loaded into my Command Line Interface, would allow me to access the AWS API, and we'll do this in the hands-on in a second. So again, remember, I want to make sure that you don't have any security issues while doing this course or at work, do not share your access keys, they are private to you. So if you're new to the Cloud, and programming and so on, or IT, then you might not know what's a CLI. So CLI stands for Command Line Interface, and the AWS CLI is a tool that allows you to interact with the AWS services using commands from your command-line shell. So whenever you see some code where you type a command line, and then it returns a result, for example, aws, s3, cp, and so on, this is what we call the CLI. And we are using the AWS CLI because we start every command by the word AWS. Now with this CLI, you get direct access to the public APIs of your AWS services which is going to be very helpful in this course. And, then, using the CLI you can develop scripts to manage your resources and automate some of your tasks. The CLI is open-source, you can find all the source code on GitHub, and it is an alternative to using the AWS Management console. I know that some people, actually, do not even use the Management console, they only use the CLI, for example. So what's the SDK now? SDK stands for Software Development Kit, and this is a set of library, this is going to be language specific, so you're going to have an SDK for different programming languages, and similarly, it will allow you to access and manage your AWS services and APIs programmatically, but this time the SDK is not something that you use within your terminal, it is something that you embed within your application that you have to code. So your application will have the AWS SDK from within them. It supports many different programming languages, such as JavaScript, Python, PHP.NET, Ruby, Java, Go, Node.js, C++, all of that's our programming languages. There's also the mobile SDK, if you're using Android or iOS, and the IoT, so Internet of Things device SDK in case you're using some thermal sensors or bike locks that are connected, all these kinds of things. So to give you an example of what you can build with the SDK, well the AWS CLI that we're going to be using in this course is actually built on the AWS SDK for Python named Boto. So that's it for this lecture. Now in then the next lecture, we're going to practice setting up the CLI and dealing with access keys, so I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CLI Setup on Windows

Okay so we are going to install the aws command line on Windows. So for this we do aws CLI install windows on Google. And this will give us the list link and we want to install the aws-cli version 2 on Windows. Okay this is the latest and so we'll up to dates. It doesn't change much versus version 1, it is just some improved performance and capability, but the API's exactly the same and there's also an improved installer. So I'm going to scroll down, in here and to Install on Windows where you can just simply install it using the MSI installer, so I just click on this link to download the MSI installer. then I'm going to run the installer so it should very very simple. Now the installer is starting, I click on Next. I accept the terms of the license, click on Next, Install and then we wait for the installer to be done. Yes, I want to allow whatever this is doing. Okay so the installer is now complete. I click on Finish and now I can go ahead and open a command line, so I'll do command line, Command Prompt here we go on Windows, and to be sure that it's fully installed I just type aws--version and press enter, and if you get a result like this: aws-cli, a version that starts with a 2, then Python, Windows, that means that your aws-cli is now properly installed on Windows and you're good to go. Finally just note that if you want to upgrade your aws-cli then you just need to re-download that MSI installer and just re-run the install and it will be automatically upgraded. But as soon as you have this output you're good to go and you can follow me in the next lecture. So see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CLI Setup on Mac

So let's install the AWS CLI on mac and for this we're just going to go on Google and make sure to choose a link installing the AWS CLI version 2 on macOS. And then we're just going to follow the process, so we'll scroll down and see what they say. And here is how to install it. So we can just download a pkg file and this will be a graphical installer. So you download the pkg file. Then you click on continue, continue, continue and you agree. Then you say, "Okay, install for all the users "on this computer." Click on continue and then click on install, and this goes ahead and installs the CLI on mac. So we wait for everything to be done, the files are being written. Okay, the installation is now successful and we'll move the installer to trash. And now to fill this out, you open a terminal on mac. So you just go ahead and type, for example, "terminal", and this will give you a terminal app. Mine is called iterm on mac, which is a free terminal that you can use. And then you just type aws -- version and if everything is going well, then it should give you back the version of the AWS executable. So let's wait for a little bit. And we get the answer, AWS CLI 2.0.10, so that means that everything has been installed correctly. So that's it for this lecture. In case of issues, please have a look at this guide. It will have the answer for you. And that's it for me. I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CLI Setup on Linux

Okay, so let's proceed with installing the AWS CLI on Linux. So for this I just google it, and I will choose installing the AWS CLI Version 2 on Linux because this is the latest one, and I'm going to scroll down. And to install the CLI it goes installing. We just have to run these three commands. So the first one is to get a Zip file. So I copy this, go into a terminal, and then I will paste it. And here we go. So this has been pasted, and it is downloading currently the installer. The next thing we have to do is to unzip it. So I copy this command and paste it, and this will unzip my installer. Great. And the last thing is to run the installer as root, so I'll do sudo and then install. This should prompt me for my password, which I enter right now, and then the installation proceed. Now it says you can run, "user/local/bin/AWS minus minus version," or very simply, "AWS minus minus version" if your user local bin is in your path, and there we go. The AWS CLI has been installed as you can see. It says AWS CLI/2. and then you are getting a different version based on when you do this. And then you get Python and Linux and Botocore, so you are good to go. When this works we can run any command on the AWS CLI and you can go ahead, with the rest of the lectures. If you got ant issues please read this and it will tell you what's going on and that it, I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CLI - Hands On

Let me show you how to create access keys. So I'm gonna click on my username, Stephane, and I'm gonna go under Security credentials. I will scroll down and I will create an access key. As you can see, there are some selection you need to do, and based on the selection I'm doing, for example, I want access key for the CLI, AWS is going to have an alternative recommended. For example, for the CLI, it's better to use CloudShell which I will show you in the next lecture, so don't worry about it. Or to use the CLI V2 and an authentication through the IAM Identity Center, which I will not show you because it's a bit more complicated. So based on what you wanna do, if it's local code application running outside of AWS or in AWS and so on, you will have some recommendation in the bottom. For now, we're going to use the CLI and we'll use these access keys and we'll click here to say "I understand the above recommendation," and I still want to create an access key because it is important for you to understand how they are, how they work, what they are, and so on. So let's create this access key. And now, this is the only time you'll be able to have access to the access key and the secret access key. So I will go back now to a previous version of that lecture where you see the old UI, but don't worry nothing changes from that point on. The first thing I have to do is to configure my AWS CLI. So I'm going to type: aws configure. And then I am greeted with entering my access key id. Very nice, I can just enter this one, and press Enter. And then I'm greeted with entering my secret access key, which I will enter right here as well. The default region name, so this is a region that is close to you. I will choose eu-west-1 because I will be doing all my tutorials eu-west-1, but you will choose your own region and you can enter your own region name. The region name, by the way, you can get directly from this drop down right here. It shows you the name of the region as well as the region code. So for me, I'm going to use my eu-west-1. I'll press Enter, and in the default output format, I'll just press Enter as well. So now my AWS CLI is configured, and so we can have a look at how it works. We can do: aws iam list-users, and press Enter. And this will list all the users in my account. And as we can see, the user I have right now is called Stephane, here is the UserId, here is the ARN, when it was created, and when the password was last used. Which is very similar to what I would get if I were to go into this UI right here. So the Management Console and the CLI do provide similar kind of information. Next, I want to show you what happens if we remove permissions from our users. So I'm gonna go to admins and I'm going to remove the Stephane user from the group admin. And so again, if I go back to my user, Stephane, it doesn't have any permissions. And I did this, obviously, with my root account, not the other accounts. So now if I go into my UI and obviously refresh this page, I'm going to get an error saying that, yes, I do not have the permissions to do this. But let's try to do the same thing with the CLI. So we're going to do an "iam list-user" call, and we get no response because actually it was being denied. So, the CLI permissions are obviously going to be the exact same as the permissions you get from the IAM console. So, the takeaway from this lecture is that you can access AWS using the Management Console or using access key and secret access key that you can configure, and then use into the CLI. So hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture. And obviously, do not forget to add your user back into the group, otherwise that would be horrible. So I'm gonna go into Groups, admins, and I'm going to add my Stephane user back into my group, and now I am an administrator again. So that's it, I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CloudFormation

Welcome to this section on Deploying and Managing Infrastructure at Scale. In this section, we'll see different ways to deploy your workloads onto AWS. And the first technology I wanna talk about is CloudFormation. So CloudFormation is such an important technology in the AWS because it is a declarative way of outlining your AWS infrastructure, for any resources, and most of them are supported. So to give you a concrete example, in CloudFormation, you would say, I want a security group. I want two EC2 instances that will be using that security group. I also want an S3 bucket, and I want a load balancer in front of all these machines. Then CloudFormation automatically creates all these things for you, in the right order, with the exact configuration that you specify. So the benefits of using CloudFormation are multiple, but the first one is that all your infrastructure is as code. That means that you will never, ever create resources manually like we've done in this course, which is excellent for control. And that means that anytime you do changes to how your AWS cloud is doing, then it needs to be reviewed through code review, which is a great way to operate in a cloud. On top of things, there is a cost advantage because each resource within the stack is going to get a tag that is going to be similar to all the other resources creating within the stack. And you can also easily estimate the cost of your resources using the CloudFormation templates. And finally, thanks to CloudFormation, you can have a saving strategy. For example, you can say that in some environment you could automate the deletion of all the templates at 5:00 PM, which will delete all the associated resources with that template, and then recreate it at 9:00 AM or 8:00 AM safely. And so therefore, you have cost savings because you don't have any resources between 5:00 PM and 8:00 AM. With CloudFormation, it's super easy to create and delete resources, which is one of the biggest cloud principle. Then for productivity. So as I said, you're able to destroy and recreate infrastructure on the fly. It's also generating diagrams for your templates as we'll see very quickly. And there's declarative programming, so you don't need to figure out if you need to create a DynamoDB table first, or an EC2 instance, or all these things together. The CloudFormation template is smart enough to figure out how to do things. Finally, with CloudFormation, we don't reinvent the wheel. So that means that we can leverage existing templates on the web, we can leverage documentation, and CloudFormation supports almost all AWS resources. That means that everything we'll see in this course is supported by CloudFormation. And in case it isn't, you can use something called a custom resource for resources that are not supported. So CloudFormation really is the base of infrastructure as code on AWS. So as I said, you can visualize a CloudFormation template using the Infrastructure Composer service and to (indistinct) to visualize a WordPress CloudFormation stack. And as you can see, we can see all the resources of our CloudFormation templates. So we can see the ALB Listener, the database security group, the SQL database, different security groups, launch configuration, application balancers, and so on. But on top of it, we can see the relations between all of these components and how they're linked together, which is very handy when you want to understand your architecture diagrams. So from an exam perspective, CloudFormation is going to be used when we have infrastructure as code, when we need to repeat an architecture in different environments, different regions, or even different AWS accounts. So that's it for me. I will see you in the next lecture for a short practice on CloudFormation.

---

### Lecture: AWS CloudFormation - Hands On

Okay, so I'm going to give you a quick introduction to CloudFormation and give you an overview that really allows you to understand how it works. So let's create a stack and let's make sure first of all that we are in the US East, Northern Virginia, US East 1 region, because the template I've created for you only works in that region. And I will tell you why when we see the template. So please make sure to switch the region to this one. Next we create a stack and we have to prepare templates. So multiple options. We can choose an existing one, use a sample template and some samples are provided or build from Application Composer. But we're going to choose an existing template. We're going to upload a template file and let me show you what the file looks like. So in your course code under CloudFormation, you have 0-just-EC2.yaml. And this is a very simple file right now which has a resource blog and it creates an instance called My instance. The type is EC2 instance, and then you have a few properties. The first one is the availability zone, which is US East 1a and this is why you have to choose US East 1 as your region in CloudFormation service right now. And the image ID is this AMI ID. And as you should know, AMI IDs are scoped within the region. So for these two reasons, you must be in US East 1 for this hands-on. The instance type is T2 micro. And so as you can see we define how to launch an EC2 instance through this YAML file. So let's go ahead and actually upload this file. So select it and then you can actually view it in Application Composer. So open this in a new tab. So here is my template. So as you can see, Application Composer gives us a visual understanding of our templates. So if we look within templates, we get back the code that we just uploaded right here and we can switch it to YAML and JSON if we wanted to. But in the canvas we see that we have one standard component, which is an EC2 instance in my instance. You could double click on it and view it the fact that it's an EC2 instance as well. So Application Composer is a nice way of getting a visual feedback of your templates. Anyway, back into our stack. Let's click on next. We have to provide a demo stack name. So I'll call this one demo CloudFormation and then some parameters. But because we don't define any parameters in our templates so far, we don't do anything here. Let's click on next here we have tags. So I'm just going to show you tag being CFDemo just to show you how tags work in CloudFormation. We scroll down, no permissions to set. We don't touch these options and neither of these options. So let's click on next and we review and create. And when we're good to go, let's click on submit. So as you can see now this template I uploaded is going to generate some events and that was very quick. So the events are done and this actually created a resource right here, which is an EC2 instance. So the code got a resource out of it, and this is why it's called Infrastructure as Code. So you can click on this EC2 instance. As you can see right now in the EC2 console, my instance is running and you can check the fact that indeed it is a T2 micro type of instance. And you can also check the fact that the AMI ID we have selected is the one that was entered in our template. So this is all very convenient. On top of it, we notice that if you go to our EC2 instance and we look at the tags, we can see that some tags were applied by CloudFormation, which are the name of the CloudFormation, the name of the logical ID and the stack ID, but also the name we have specified. So the tag we specified has name CFDemo has also been applied to this EC2 instance, and therefore it's named correctly. Okay, so now that we have an instance, let's go ahead and update this stack. So we click on update and we replace the existing template. And this time we're going to choose this 1-ec2-with-sg-eip file. And if you have a look at it, this file is right here. So we have a more complete file now. We have a parameter section to set the security group description. We have the EC2 instance section, which is a bit more complete because now it has security groups and it has two of those. We have an Elastic IP here that is attached to my instance. And we have one security group here defined for SSH rules. So port 22 is going to be open and we have the server security group, which is going to be open on port 80 from everyone and port 22 from a very specific IP. So this is a more complete CloudFormation template. Now let's go back to CloudFormation and we're going to apply these template. So here we are prompted with a parameter. So what is the security group description? So let's enter demo description. And as you can see now we are entering some texts, which is going to make everything vary. We don't touch the tags, we don't touch anything. Let's click on next. And now because we are applying an update, as you can see, we have a change set. And so we can preview the change sets, which is what is going to change in our CloudFormation stack. So as you can see, a few things are added. There is an Elastic IP, there is an SSH security group and a server security group. And it's add, so it's new. And my instance is going to change, it's going to be modified, and there is a column here says replacement true. That means that this EC2 instance is going to be replaced, that means that the previous one is going to be deleted and a new one is going to be created. So it's good to know in case you had some data on your EC2 instance. So now let's submit this update and see what happens. So CloudFormation is a very smart service because well, from just this code right here it's able to figure out exactly what to do thanks to the change sets, so it knows exactly what to create first. So as you can see, the server security group and the SSH security group already are created. And only then will it update the EC2 instance. So now the my instance is an update in progress, and as you can see, it says requested updates requires the creation of a new physical resource, hence creating one. So if you go into the EC2 console and we remove this filter, now we see that we have two EC2 instances. This one was created before and this one is the new one and it was pending and now it is running. So a new instance got created and once it's created, again, it's going to be updated here, the update is complete. And now we have MyEIP. So now the Elastic IP is going to be created and then attached to my EC2 instance. So if we're quick and we go on the left hand side to Elastic IP, even though we may not have seen what it is here is Elastic IP that is properly created, properly tagged, and it is attached already to our EC2 instance. So now if I click on this one and then I click on networking at the bottom, you see Elastic IP address here was attached. So everything was done by CloudFormation and was done well. And if you look at CloudFormation now in the events, as you can see, the Elastic IP was created and then there was a cleanup in progress due in progress. So that means that the previous EC2 instance right here, this one got terminated, which is very handy because CloudFormation takes care of everything. So you can go into the resources tab and see everything that was created through CloudFormation. On top of it, if you go to the template and you click on view in Application Composer, you're able to see now your new architecture. So we have an EC2 instance connected to an Elastic IP and connected to two security groups. So this is very handy because it gets a visual representation again of our templates. So finally, of course, confirmation. You could go ahead and delete things manually. You could delete this Elastic IP and so on, and the EC2 instances manually. But this is actually not recommended. You don't wanna touch anything manually when using CloudFormation. Instead, you want to either update the templates, or if you wanted to delete everything, just click on delete. And CloudFormation will delete all the stack resources. And the stack resources are also going to be deleted in the right orders. So CloudFormation will figure out what to delete first and so on to clean up everything. So CloudFormation is a really powerful service to do infrastructure as code because it's declarative. You just say what you want and CloudFormation figures it out, and all the code will control your infrastructure, which is very, very handy. So learning how to use it and write it can be a very good skill in AWS. So I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeArtifact

Okay, so now let's discuss CodeArtifact. So the idea is that when you build software, you use other software that your own software depends on. This is called code dependencies. And every time you build software it's very common to push the software into a repository, and then other software can build onto it. So there is this whole dependencies, and this whole dependencies web is called artifact management. So traditionally, when you use artifacts you set up your own artifact management system, and the idea is that it could be quite complicated. So using CodeArtifact, you get a secure, scalable, cost-effective artifact management system for software development. And CodeArtifact has more than this. I'll show you this in the diagram, but it has integration with common dependency measuring tools such as Maven, Gradle, npm, yarn, twine, pip, and NuGet. And the idea is that using CodeArtifact, both developers and CodeBuild can retrieve the dependencies straight from CodeArtifact within your AWS cloud. So let's do a diagram is going to be much clearer. So with CodeArtifact, all your artifacts live within your VPC, within AWS. Sometimes if you use other artifact management systems they could be third parties outside of AWS, or if you deploy your own artifact measurement system they could live on these two instances, for example. In which case, yes, of course it will be within your VPC. So with CodeArtifact, you're going to define domains, and each domain is just a set of repositories. Now, as a developer, the cool thing is that you can tell the developers, hey, you need to, for example, for your JavaScript developers run the npm command to fetch dependencies for your JavaScript packages to CodeArtifact. And CodeArtifact is going to be a proxy for public artifact repositories. So instead of having your JavaScript developers actually directly reach into the public artifact repo themselves, they're going to reach to CodeArtifact, which is going to be wired to public artifact repositories and the request will be proxied. Why will you do this, well for two reasons, number one, network security. So your JavaScript developers only interact with CodeArtifact, and CodeArtifact will proxy the request to the public repo. But also as the dependencies are being fetched, they're going to be cached into CodeArtifact itself. Which means that even if the dependency disappears from the public artifact repository, you will still have your own copy within CodeArtifact. Which is good to make sure that your code can always be built in the future. Now this works for not just JavaScript, but also for Python with pip. It works for .net with NuGet and Java with Maven. Okay? So all these things can be proxied from CodeArtifact into this own repositories. But the second thing you can do is obviously push your own artifacts. And so your IT leader or your developers can publish and approve packages to be pushed into other repositories within CodeArtifact. That means that all your artifacts will live in one place in your VPC. And everything will just depend on everything, all the code that's already within your CodeArtifact, artifact management system. And if developers can get all these artifacts out of CodeArtifact, then of course CodeBuild can also too. And it is that now CodeBuild instead of fetching from public repositories, can also fetch all this information directly from CodeArtifact. Next, how does CodeArtifact changes trigger some stuff downstream in AWS? So we will see this service in detail later on, but CodeArtifact events such as when a package is created or modified or deleted will emit events into what's called EventBridge. And EventBridge is like a repository of events within AWS. And from EventBridge, you can pretty much integrate and trigger many different AWS services, such as Lambda functions, Step functions, SNS, SQS. And if none of these terms mean anything to you by now, that's okay. We will see these later on in this course. And also, for example, CodePipeline. So it is possible for CodeArtifact to trigger CodePipeline through EventBridge, whenever a package version for example is updated. And so why would we wanna do this? Well, for example, CodePipeline could have CodeCommit so that we know that the dependency has been updated. Then triggering CodeBuild to rebuild your application with the updated dependency maybe for security reasons. And then finally deploy the new application to your production environment using CodeDeploy. So this could be a nice automated way to build a full automated pipeline that ensures that you always have the latest dependencies in your code within your builds. So any artifact repository within your accounts can be easily accessed by your users of your accounts or your roles with your accounts with an IAM policy. But if you want to authorize another account, and users and roles of that account to access CodeArtifact then you need to use a resource policy. So when you grant someone access to a CodeArtifact repository, what's going to happen is that you either give them access to all packages or none of them. You cannot say only access these packages. So when you authorize another account to access your repo you authorize, for example, Bob in Account B to access all packages within that specific repo. And to give access to Bob to your accounts, what you can do is use a resource policy in which you authorize, for example, Bob of the other accounts to read the packages in your code artifact repo. And this cannot be done without a resource policy but it's just something you need to know for one question at the exam. But this is a recurring topic in AWS. Whenever you need cross account access sometimes, most of the times, resource policies are going to be the way to go. Okay, so that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: AWS CodeArtifact - Hands On

So let's practice using code artifacts. So to do so, I'm going to create a repository and I'll call this one Demo Repository. And optionally, we can select an upstream. So we want to pull packages from Python. So I will use this Python store. So I will click on next. And next we need to define a domain. So domain is where do we want to store the artifact data? All the repos, all the the packages data. So we choose our accounts and as you can see there's no domain in our accounts. And so therefore we need to create a domain. And this domain represents your company. So I want to name it, my-company. Additionally, for the domain where all the packages are going to be stored you need to specify a KMS key for encryption and I will just simply use the AWS managed key for this. I'll click on next. And as you can see what is being created now out of it is my demo repository, which will have one upstream repository called this pypi-store. And then out of it this upstream repository has one external connection to the public pypi store. Okay, so we're going to now create this repository. And if you go one level up now we see two repositories in here. We have the one that has an external connection which is the pypi store. It says here connected to a public repository. And then we have the demo repository that we have. Okay? As we can see, we have the pypi store as an upstream repo, and we could, for example edit the upstream repositories and add multiple ones if we wanted to. Okay. But how do we actually now leverage this demo repository. For this, we need to view the connection instruction, but let's go and open CloudShell in another tab because this is where we're going to be running our commands. So let's clear this. Okay, now let's go back into code artifact and view the connection instruction. We're going to use pip and we have two ways of doing it. The first one is that you can just use the CLI to configure pip for you. And if you try to run this command, I will show you right now I'll copy it and I will paste it in CloudShell. Because of a CloudShell bug or a code artifact bug, I'm not really sure which one it is but it says pip is not found. That's because actually pip3 is installed, but not pip. And this is just code artifact not being good at using pip3 or CloudShell not installing pip, whichever it is. But this does not work for now. So what I'm going to do is the manual setup, which is good because we'll see as well how to manually set up this. So the first thing we have to do is to use code artifact to get an authorization token which is going to be authenticated to my domain, my domain owner, my region. And the idea is that we'll be able using this token to connect pip to it. So we'll export this and then if I do echo and then the actual code artifact token I can see this token has been generated. Now it's valid for 12 hours and after 12 hours it will have expired and I won't be able to connect to pip to my repository on code artifact therefore, we'll have to rerun this command. Now we can just run this pip conflict command which will not work until you actually modify the beginning of the command and use pip3. So we have pip3 config set, and now we are connecting to our code artifact repo automatically. So now if I do pip, install and response which is the name of a package, and press enter, and actually I do need to do pip3 install response. This is actually going to connect to code artifact and it's going to pull this response dependency from it. And of course, if this package depends on other things then it's going to download the rest as well which is why you see a lot of information in here. So now it's being installed and we're done very soon. And what we see now is that if you go to code artifacts, and then you refresh your packages, now you see as you can see all the packages that were pulled. So we have the response package but also any other package that response was depending upon. And this is inserted into my demo repository, but if I go into my other repo that has an external connection, as you can see, they're there as well. So because we keep one copy on the repo that has an external connection, and one copy on the repo that we connected to which is the demo repository. So if now if I click on response, I can see have version 0.5.0 which is the latest but I can for example, try to install another version. So I do == 0.4.0, and this is going to install a previous version of this package. And I go back to code artifact, I refresh this page and this can take a bit of time. Sometimes you have to wait 30 seconds, as you can see now I have version 0.5.0, and version 0.4.0 now available within my demo repository which is pretty cool. So other things I want to show you is, for example around repository policy. So you can apply a repo policy at the repo level, and here we have the read-only access read and publish access or full access and we can choose the type of governance we want which will edit the policy, and then we can simply paste it in here to determine access. Other things I can do is go to my domain, click on it. As you can see, my company has two repos, but what I can do is I can apply a domain policy, and again here the example policies for contributor domain access or full domain access for an IAM principle or an organization. So this is very handy and we've basically seen how cloud artifact works. Now you can go ahead and create more repositories and then define which ones are the upstream of which, and then configure for example, Python pip to pull from them. And automatically, as you can see, dependencies will be stored in our repositories. So that's it. Now to just finish this hands on just take this repo and you delete it. You take the second repo and you delete it as well. And next, you take your domain and you can simply delete it and you're good to go. Okay, that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 13 of 20 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*