<!-- Section 13 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 13 OF 15: Static Website Hosting
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Using Amazon S3 to Host a Static Website

Welcome to the section where we're going to focus on static website hosting. Now, traditional hosting in the past can be complex and pretty costly sometimes, but when you use Amazon's S3 static website hosting feature, it really helps simplify the process of deployment and management of your website. This feature does offer several cool benefits. First, it provides simple hosting for your static websites. You don't have to worry about setting up or managing complex infrastructure or worried about something like server side processing. You can simply focus on creating and delivering your content to your users and then you can simply upload it to an S3 bucket to be accessed by your customers. So let's go ahead and check it out. So as I mentioned, Amazon S3 does offer the capability to host static websites that are going to be accessible to the public on the Internet. Now, using this feature, you can develop your website assets like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and all the images that you need for your website. You can store them directly in an S3 bucket and that allows easy access for your users or your customers. Additionally, client side scripts can be used to enhance the website and enhance functionality for your users. Now S3 Buckets do support two main options for website hosting. First, you can use a bucket to directly host a website, and that's what we're going to be focusing on mostly in this section. And this allows it to make it accessible through a user friendly URL like you're used to using any kind of website. Alternatively, you can also configure a bucket to be used for redirection. It's kind of similar to a name DNS record which allows you to redirect users to another website or URL or another object in the case of Amazon S3. So overall, this feature is going to provide you with a really simple and efficient solution for hosting these static websites. So let's go ahead and take a look at them. My first example here is we have a website visitor on the right, maybe at home, and he wants to access our website. What we're going to do is create a bucket inside of our AWS account, and then we're going to, of course, load all of our website assets into this bucket. This may include things like HTML files, images, CSS, JavaScript, anything that's really part of a static website. Those are going to be uploaded as objects into our bucket. Then what we're going to do is we're going to configure our bucket specifically for static website hosting. So once we do that, we're going to get a specific URL and that URL is going to be tied to the name of our bucket. So let's check that out. When we use the default URL that's provided to us, when we simply enable static website hosting, it's going to be tied to the bucket name and the region that's going to be used to access your website. So in my case, I created a bucket called S3 Dot crowds and IO crowds, and IO is a domain that I own, so I'm simply going to create a bucket named s3.io. And then when I create a bucket name and enable static website hosting, this is the default URL that Amazon S3 is going to provide me. So once I upload all of my assets into this bucket and I make all the other changes required in order to make these objects public and all that good stuff, I can simply click on this link directly and it should show my website. So pretty easy. Now one thing you can also do, and I would say most people are going to do is use your own custom domain. Again, I own the domain of crowds and IO. So what I can do is I can create my bucket, load all my assets into that, that I'm going to take that default URL that the S3 bucket provides me and I'm going to go to my DNS provider. In this case, it's Route 53. And what I can do then is create a C name record in there that says, Hey, anybody trying to get to S3 dot Crowson IO, go ahead and redirect them to that default URL that I get from my bucket. So then my customers, my website users, they only see my custom domain name and on the back end it gets named over to the default name of the bucket. A really cool and easy way to use your own custom domain because that's probably what you want your customers to see. You don't want them to see that big long URL that we just saw. Now, even better, we can actually tie a CloudFront distribution to add a TLS certificate to our website as well. Almost every website on the internet today is going to be protected by a TLS certificate, even if that website is simply hosting static content. So what you probably want to do is add a TLS certificate to your website. Now, by adding a CloudFront distribution to the front of your S3 bucket. We can go ahead and tie a TLS certificate that's minted by certificate manager. All native services. And then we can simply serve our content to our customers. Now, using Https versus Http, we are encrypting all the traffic from our user to our bucket. So let's go ahead and look at how we would do that from a custom domain perspective. We talked about how we would have the redirection done using a C name record, and that's going to allow us to use our own custom domain. So what I would do is I would go into my DNS provider. In this case, it's going to be for Krasnaya IO, and then I'm going to create a new record. And that new record is going to be my website name. It could be W-w-w-what, Krasnaya could be S3 Buckets, Dot Krasnodar or whatever you want to call it. In this case, for this demonstration, I'm going to call it s3.croudson.io. So I'm going to create a C name record there and the value of that record is going to reflect that default URL that I got from my bucket. So I got S3 dot Krasnaya dot S3 Website US East one dot Amazon Aws.com That's the value of my C name record. So whenever a user hits S3 dot krasnaya they'll be redirected on the back end to that default URL for our bucket. Now, if we want to introduce the TLS certificate I mentioned, we can use cloudfront distribution. Well, what we can do is create a cloudfront distribution and we can set up the cloudfront to use the origin of our S3 bucket. All of our static website assets live in our bucket and I want CloudFront to distribute that. When we set up a CloudFront distribution, we have the option of protecting it with a TLS certificate. Now, of course, CloudFront gets its own URL down here. Have this D111 this example URL from cloudfront. It's not a real one, but what we would do instead now is our S3 dot Crowson dot IOC name. Now we would point that to our cloudfront URL because now when our users access our assets for our website, we want them to hit it through CloudFront because CloudFront is protected by the TLS certificate that we can create with AWS Certificates Manager. So again, we have the full blown infrastructure all the way from our user accessing our site through CloudFront. CloudFront is going to fetch all of the objects that live in our S3 bucket and it's going to present those to the customer using a TLS certificate. So everything is encrypted with our DNS records look like when we're using CloudFront. Well, it's very similar process. We would go to the service that's hosting our DNS for our custom domain. Again, in my case it's krasnaya. I would create a new key name record called S3 dot Krasnaya because that's the DNS record that I want my customers to hit to access my website. And instead of pointing it to the URL for our bucket. Now in this case, we're going to point it to the URL of our CloudFront distribution. So again, the only reason we would add a CloudFront distribution here is we want our website to be faster. We want to distribute all this content using CloudFront and all the edge locations. So if you have very large objects, that may be beneficial. But again, in this case I'm simply using CloudFront to add the option of protecting our site using TLS because S3 does not have that capability natively. So we have to integrate this with another service. Two reasons why we want to integrate with CloudFront, distributing our content, adding TLS What does this actually look like when we're using all native services for this entire configuration? Again, on the right side, we've got our administrator. Our administrator is responsible for generating our website. Maybe they're developing our website and then they upload all those assets to S3. Now of course, all this other configuration is going to be the responsibility of our AWS admin. But from an infrastructure standpoint, you can see we have our assets in our S3 bucket. At the top, we have our CloudFront distribution and that's going to fetch all the assets from the origin, which is our S3 bucket. Now our CloudFront distribution is going to be secured by a TLS certificate from AWS Certificate Manager. Cool thing about certificate manager certificates are free, so if you're using all native services, you can go ahead and create your search for free using certificate manager and now you can protect all your websites and your applications using CERT manager. Now when you set up a certificate for your domain, you're going to validate that TLS certificate through Amazon Route 53. And that's assuming that's where you are hosting your DNS for your domain. So in my case, my Krasnaya domain, it is hosted in Amazon Route 53 for DNS. So if I go create a certificate for s3.io, I can simply validate that I own that domain by adding a text record into Route 53 and then validate. That force. So from a user perspective, now our website users on the left here, the first thing they're going to do is open up Chrome or Internet Explorer or whatever Safari, and they're going to type in s3.crowson.io. Of course, we all know on the back end we're going to ultimately query for DNS and that's going to land on Amazon Route 53 because that's my authoritative DNS server for that domain. So the user's machine is going to say, I need the IP address for S3 and it's going to respond with the C name and say, you know what, you really need to go to one, two, three, four dot cloudfront dot net. It's going to provide that C name. Then it's going to look that up and it's going to ultimately land on Amazon. CloudFront And of course that CloudFront is protected by our TLS certificate that is secured by certificate manager. So our website users now access our website. It's presented to them, it's secured by TLS and any of the assets that currently do not live in CloudFront up front, then CloudFront is responsible for fetching those assets from our bucket and of course it's going to cache those in CloudFront. So this is what the entire picture would look like if you're using all native AWS services for this configuration. Now, if you want to take it one step further, I've got this full DevOps experience here, so a little bit more complex. I'm adding more DevOps kind of services in here. So you see on the far right down the bottom we've got our admin instead of our admin committing our website assets directly to an Amazon S3 bucket. Maybe we want to add more of a gitops functionality in here. So our admin is going to commit our changes to say AWS code commit. It's going to commit it to a repo. So that way we are versioning our website, we can make changes, we can collaborate, all those good things. So any changes or maybe even just the initial upload of our website gets committed to code commit. Now that's going to trigger a pipeline in AWS code pipeline. One thing we can do is if we want to take again a step further is instead of deploying all the infrastructure on the left side manually, we could actually use something like AWS, CloudFormation or TerraForm to go deploy all the infrastructure. So go create my S3 bucket, go get a certificate, go set up Route 53, go create an Amazon CloudFront distribution. We can set all that stuff up using infrastructure as code. So if we opt to do that, we wait for CloudFormation or TerraForm to go build our infrastructure and then our code pipeline can go ahead and generate our site and push all of our website assets into our bucket. So again, all our administrator has to do at this point is commit changes to our code, commit repo, and then we automatically get any changes pushed to our Amazon S3 bucket using Codepipeline and then any changes are automatically rendered for our website users whenever they refresh the page or first access our website on top of adding the code commit and code pipeline and CloudFormation to this. I also put monitoring and logging in there. Again, CloudFormation or TerraForm can be used to go ahead and set up Cloudwatch and Cloudtrail. So anything happening in this entire this full DevOps experience is both monitored using Cloudwatch and it's all audited and logged using Cloudtrail as well. Full experience here. We can use all native AWS services to walk through this entire workflow and provide more of a gitops experience when we're working and deploying our website directly to S3. We've talked a lot about it. How do we actually do it? Well, step by step it's actually pretty easy. The first thing we're going to do is of course enable our static website hosting feature on our bucket. Now the next thing we'll do is upload all the contents of our site to our bucket. That, of course, means that it's already been developed. You've got your images, you've got your CSS, you've got JavaScript, all that stuff. You simply upload it into the bucket. Then what we're going to do is go into the bucket, ensure that we've disabled S3, block public access. Remember, that's a feature we talked about in the securing your data section. But what we want to do is ensure that, well, people on the public internet need to access our website. That's the whole point of creating a website. Well, we need to do is ensure that block public access is disabled for this particular bucket. Once that's done, we can actually create a bucket policy on our bucket to say, you know what, we're going to allow get object or simply read access to all the objects in our bucket. And then finally a user can access your website using CloudFront or your DNS records that you set up as well, setting up on the S3 perspective one through five, super easy. So that's what we're going to do in the demonstration coming up. We're going to go ahead and create a bucket. We're going to upload our assets, we're going to make all these configuration changes, showcase how we can access it using the default URL. Then we're going to take it a step further and use my. Krasnaya domain and set up redirection. So now we can hit it with a friendly URL. And even one step further, we're going to go ahead and create a CloudFront distribution, tie a TLS certificate to that and showcase. Now we access our website using our friendly URL, but now we have a TLS certificate tied to that as well. So the full spectrum in here, we want to make sure that you fully understand how to go from configuring it all the way to deploying it successfully in an environment in the most secure and easiest way possible. Hopefully that was useful. You better understand what static website hosting is and we'll see you in the demo next.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Static Website Hosting

Welcome to the first demo in our static website hosting section. Now what we're going to do in this demo is go ahead and set up our bucket. We're going to move all of our website assets into this bucket and we're just going to do it mainly just kind of showcase how we can do that using the AWS management console. And then we're going to go ahead and configure our bucket to ensure that everything is public. And we of course are going to test it on the screen here. I'm in the Amazon S3 console and the first thing I'm going to do is go ahead and create a bucket. So I'm going to click Create Bucket. I'm going to call this s3.krausen.io. That's going to be our bucket name. Now, I don't really care what region I'm in. I'm just going to leave it as the default of Ohio. I'm going to go down. We're going to leave ACLs disabled with bucket ownership enforced right now. I'm going to leave this enabled so block all public access. And you already know by this time that we're going to go ahead and have to take that off. We're just going to leave all the defaults since this is just a demo. So I'm going to click Create Bucket, and now we have our new bucket right here, S3 IO. Now I'm going to go ahead and open up this bucket and the first thing we need to do is we need to upload all of our website assets. Now if I go over here, you can see in VS code, I've got a bunch of different files in here that make up a website that we're going to use. So I've got CSS fonts, images, uploads, and I've got a bunch of HTML files in here. We're going to use these as our website. What we're going to do is I'm going to minimize this. We're going to copy all those files into our bucket. So I'm just going to click on Upload and on my other screen I'm going to browse to that directory and I'm just going to highlight everything. We're just going to drag them all over here and drop them here. So there are quite a bit of files. There's 708 total, 15 megs, so it's not too bad and I'm just going to go ahead and leave all the defaults and click on upload. Now in the past I've done this, it takes about six minutes and so what we'll do is we'll just go ahead and cut out the video just so you don't have to sit there six minutes and watch all these files upload. So we'll kick back off as soon as these files get uploaded and we will continue configuring our bucket. All right. Looks like that just wrapped up. It went a little bit slower than I expected. It's actually storming here as I'm recording this, so I don't know if that's impacting my Internet, but you can see that we have uploaded all the files. So I'm going to hit close here. And you can see in our bucket, we've got all of those files. So click on type here. You can see we've got a couple folders in here and we've got all of those files. So we've got all of our files in our S3 bucket. Now the first thing that we need to do is we need to go ahead and disable S3, block public access. So if we go over to our properties and scroll down, we've got our static website hosting configuration right here. But if we go over to permissions, you can see we've got block all public access on. So I'm going to click on edit and I'm going to go ahead and just uncheck this box and say, save It doesn't make our bucket public but is going to allow us to do that. We'll go ahead and confirm that. Now, underneath the permissions, we need to modify our bucket policy. So if we go to properties right now, we don't have any URL to use for static website hosting. And actually, if we were to go into our objects and I'll find index.html and click on that, you can see that we get access denied so does not yet public. So I'll go back here, go to our buckets, go into our bucket here, go into permissions and we're going to modify our bucket policy. So I'm going to click edit here. And then what we're going to do is we're going to use the bucket policy, public access, and go ahead and put that in here. And this is the one that I showcased on my GitHub. And so what we're going to do is go ahead and just ensure that all of our objects inside of our bucket are public. So I'm going to go here in this bucket right here and click on copy and highlight this right here and paste it in. And you can see that we have resources on AWS, S3, S3 Crowds and IO. I'm going to click on here and do forward slash Star because we want to access all of our objects inside of our bucket. And of course we have principal star here, which means anybody. So if I were to apply this before I remove the block public access, I would actually get an access denied because it would prevent me from editing this bucket policy and adding a policy that has a principal of Star. So we've got our bucket policy here. We're allowed Public Read, S3 get object is the only action we're permitting and we're permitting that on anything inside of our bucket. So I'm going to scroll down here, click on Save Changes and there we go. Objects can be public. Now what we need to do is enable this bucket for static website hosting. So I'm going. Click on properties here, scroll all the way down to the bottom. We have static website hosting down here at the bottom. I'm going to click on edit and we get static website hosting configuration. I'm going to click on Enable and we get hosting type. We have host a static website or redirect requests for an object. We want host a static website down here at index document. I'm just going to leave the default as index.html because I do have an index.html. I don't have an error document right now or any redirection rules, so I'm just going to leave the defaults and I'm going to click on save changes. So that has enabled our bucket for static website hosting. We've enabled public access and we've uploaded all of our contents. So now if I scroll back down here, you can see now we have a bucket website endpoint, I have Http S3, IO S3 website, US East two because we're in Ohio Dot, Amazon Aws.com. So if I click on that, we should get access to our website that's hosted in our bucket. So there we go. Welcome to the Amazon S3 Restaurant Serving the Delicious Clouds since 1990. There is our static website that is hosted in S3 and you can see that our URL is pointing directly to our bucket. That's how we create a bucket, enable all the permissions and settings for static website hosting. And then of course we can test it by hitting the URL that's provided in our bucket.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Adding a Custom Domain for Static Website Hosting

Now that we have our website up and running, what we want to do is tie this to a more friendly name. We don't want users going to S3. IO S3 website, blah blah blah. We want to give them a simple DNS name. So let's go back to AWS. And what we're going to do is we're going to work with a domain that I already own, which is just IO. So under services, I'm going to go into Route 53 and I've got quite a few domains in here already. I actually cleaned them out, so I actually only have four now. If I go into Route 53, you can see I have crowds and IO. So we're going to modify this domain name. So we're going to go back into S3. I'm going to right click this and do open a new tab so we can work on both of them at the same time. We're going to go into our bucket, go to properties and scroll down and I'm going to right click and I'm going to copy this link, or you just click the little button right next to it. Now what we need to do is go back into Route 53. We're going to go into our hosted zone. That's already been created for my domain, and then I'm going to create a name. So I'm going to create a record and I'm going to drop this down. I'm going to say See name that's going to redirect one domain name to another URL. And the subdomain we want is just S3 that creates S3 dot crowds and.io and under the value, I'm going to paste the URL that I want for our domain and get rid of Http. And here is the value we want to redirect people to. I'm going to leave the TTL as the default and I'm going to go ahead and create our record. So we've got a new record in here, down here, S3 Dot Crowds and IO, it's a key name and it points to our bucket. So if I were to open up a new incognito window here and then type in our S3 dot crowds in.io and hit enter, we'll see how fast DNS propagates. Sometimes it may propagate a little bit slow. And there we go. There's our website. By using our friendly name of s3.io, we get access to our same static website that's hosted on S3. Now notice up here, it says Not secure. We do not currently have a TLS certificate to secure our domain. So what we're going to do is go ahead and add CloudFront to the mix. We'll add a TLS and then we'll secure our website that way. But hopefully that was useful for you. Again, I'm going to close that out. Again, all we did in Route 53, we went into our domain. We created a new C name record and we pointed to the URL that's provided to us by the static website hosting feature, and then that allows us to do the redirection. Now, of course, if you're not using Route 53, you can do this in any DNS provider that you're using. So if you're using some other service maybe provided by your domain registrar or something like that, you simply go in there and modify your DNS and add the domain, add the C name record and you're good to go. It may not propagate as fast as if you're using all AWS services, but that's the way you would do it even if you're using an external service. That was helpful for you. In the next section, we're going to go ahead and add our CloudFront distribution.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Securing our Website Using CloudFront and TLS

Now that we have our website up and running using our custom domain, let's go ahead and add CloudFront to the mix so we can secure our website using TLS. So back in AWS, what I'm going to do is go ahead and go into CloudFront. So I'm going to click on search and type in CloudFront at the top here. We're going to click on that. Now I'm going to create a new distribution here and under the origin domain, I'm going to click on my bucket here. But since we're using static website hosting, I'm just going to click this use website endpoint. So it uses our endpoint instead. So we're going to do that. I'm going to scroll on down towards the bottom here. What I want to do under default cache behavior under viewer. I want to redirect Http to Https. So if somebody actually tries to hit our website using Http, well it's going to redirect to Https automatically and then of course use the certificate that we're going to create. So we're going to continue leaving some of the defaults down here. We're going to go all the way down towards the bottom under settings. Now what we want to do is I'm going to go ahead and just use North America and Europe only just so it's faster under alternative domain name right here. I'm going to add the name of our website. So s3.krausen.io. Now, this is going to be important because when it creates our custom SSL certificate, it's going to add this as an alternative name, otherwise known as a San. Sometimes on a certificate it'll be valid for both the CloudFront distribution URL and the URL of S3 dot Krasnaya. So we're going to go ahead and add that now down here for custom SSL certificate. Well, I don't have one yet, so I'm going to click on request certificate. It's going to bring us straight into certificate manager. Let me close out all these notifications and I'm going to request a public certificate, so I'm going to click on next. What is the fully qualified domain name? Well, we want S3 dot Crowson, dot IO. Now down here we can do DNS validation because I am using Route 53 on here. We can do that. I'm going to leave everything else as the default, so I'm going to click on requests down here and it's going to give me some information when I go in here. So I'm going to click on refresh. So it should say pending validation right here. If I open up that request, what I can do is you can see under here the pending validation and it wants me to create a C name record inside of my DNS. Now, since I am already using Route 53, I can go ahead and click this button here, create records and Route 53. If you're using an external DNS solution, you would have to mainly go add these. So I'm going to click on Create Records in Route 53. It already recognizes that I have a domain here, create records, so it's going to create it directly inside of the Route 53 zone. So now that that's done, if you actually want to go see that, go over to Route 53, I'll open that into a new tab, go back into our hosted zones, go into crowds and IO and here is that name right here that it created for us, right? It uses that for validation. Back in Certificate Manager, we are still in a validating state. Now if I go out and click on refresh and we'll see how fast, sometimes it takes a little bit. So we have to wait for Amazon to go validate that DNS record. So if we go in here, we can scroll down, Okay, it's actually done now, successful. It has been validated. So if we go back here certificates, you can see it's been issued. Awesome. We have our new certificate. Cool. So we can go back to our distribution and what we need to do is click on refresh here right next to the certificate. And if we click the drop down, we can actually see our new certificate here. S3 dot Krasnaya So we go ahead and click that. We're going to leave all the other defaults in here and we're going to go ahead and click create distribution. After we click on this sorry, go down here, create distribution and it's going to go ahead and create our distribution. Now, CloudFront can take 20 or more minutes to create our distribution for it to fully be deployed. So what I'll do is I'll keep an eye on it, I'll keep refreshing. So I'm going to go back to distributions, I'm going to click on refresh and you can see over on the right we have deploying. And so what I'll do is I'll pause the video again, wait for that to complete, and then we will go ahead and test it. Now notice that already we have our domain name for our cloudfront. So I guess while we're waiting, we can go ahead and modify our DNS. So we're going to right click and copy our domain name for our CloudFront. We're going to go back to our Route 53 and remember that name that we created for S3 and what we want to modify that now. So I'm going to click on that. I'm going to click edit record. And instead of pointing to S3, we want to point that to CloudFront instead. So I'm going to click on Save right there. Now that may take a little bit to propagate, but that's okay. Because we're still waiting for our distribution to be created. So go back to CloudFront, click on Refresh, still deploying. So I'll pause the video and wait for that to finish deploying and then we should be able to test it and make sure it works and is secured with TLS. All right. So it looks like that one wrapped up that only took about five minutes or so to deploy that. So you can see that we have our CloudFront distribution here for S3 Crowson Audio. We have our origin that points back to our bucket and you can see that it is enabled. So now we should be able to go over here and remember we had S3 crowds and IO before we already updated our DNS record. So we should do https, colon slash, slash and hit enter and let's see if it worked. Awesome. We get our website and up here you can see the lock. You can see that the connection is secure by our certificate. And for the fun of it, what we can do is let's just type in Http. Remember we had that redirect on there. So we get rid of the S and hit enter here. You can see it does automatically redirect us to Https because we set up our cloudfront distribution to redirect http to Https for us. So that wraps up this demo. Hopefully that was beneficial for you. You're able to see all the way from creating the bucket to uploading the content and modifying our bucket permissions and S3 block public access settings all the way to creating a C name record to provide a friendly URL for our website. And then finally adding a CloudFront distribution on the front end of it to use TLS to secure our website. So that's it with this one. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next one.

---

*Section 13 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
