<!-- Section 8 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 8 OF 15: Protecting Your Data in Amazon S3
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Protecting Your Data in Amazon S3

And welcome to this section where we are going to talk about protecting your data in Amazon S3. Now that we know how to secure our data, let's talk about how to protect it and what do we need to protect it against? Well, there are a lot of different things that we have to consider when we're talking about data protection. The first one is mistakes made by individuals. So even the most cautious individuals can make errors. We're all human. We all make mistakes. And sometimes these mistakes can lead to data loss. Therefore, it's essential to have a backup and a recovery strategy in place when it comes to the data that you're storing on Amazon S3. The next thing may be malicious attacks. The threat of malicious attacks is ever present in today's digital landscape. These activities can compromise or destroy your data, and this really emphasizes the need for robust security measures here. And finally, geographical disruptions, things like natural disasters, maybe power outages or other disturbances in a specific region where you're storing your data can disrupt your data access. Now, as a result, having data redundancy across multiple locations for your Amazon S3 data is definitely going to be a crucial part of a comprehensive data protection strategy here. Now let's talk about some of the built in protection features of S3 and that's what we're going to focus on throughout this entire section. Now, the first one is data encryption. So Amazon S3 makes available multiple ways that we can encrypt our data. Now, this can mean multiple things. From an encryption standpoint. It could mean in-transit encryption. So when I'm uploading data to S3, is that data encrypted as it's going over the wire, going over the Internet? Is that data encrypted at rest? So when my data is written to disk, is it written in encrypted form? That way, if somebody walks into an Amazon data center, which by the way is very, very unlikely but pulls out a hard drive, can they read my data? And finally, we'll talk about client side encryption. So the idea of encrypting your data before you ever put it up in the cloud so that way not even Amazon can decrypt it, you maintain those keys. So that's one major aspect of data protection that we're going to talk about. The next one is object versioning. Now we mentioned versioning in an earlier topic. We very briefly introduced it, but we're going to go deep into object versioning in this section. And object versioning allows us to keep multiple versions of an object, hence the name. Now we can use object versioning to protect against things like accidental deletion, accidental overwrite, or just be able to refer to an older object version if we need to. We're going to talk about bucket replication. Now. At the beginning of the course I mentioned that your data is written only to the region that you select when you are creating your bucket. Well, we can use something like bucket replication to replicate that to another region, replicate to another bucket, replicate that to another account if we need to, for protection. So that's another thing we're going to talk about. We're also going to talk about MFA delete to ensure that you must have access to a security device that has a six digit code in order to perform a delete on certain data. We're also going to talk about things like Object Locked and a few other features of S3 So let's jump right into it.

---

### Lecture: Protecting Your Data with Amazon S3 Encryption

Before we start, I want to start with this awesome quote by Werner Vogels. So this was a quote that he made on stage at AWS, and it really sets the stage of what we're going to be talking about here. If you think about our data and you think about just today's world in terms of like the digital landscape, we really find ourselves in a world where our data has become the most valuable currency. Our data flows through every aspect of our lives and businesses. It shapes decisions. It shapes outcomes of how businesses are going to transform. And because of that, data tends to be a frequent target of concern when we think about securing our cloud and our data centers. So again, it brings to mind this famous saying dance like nobody is watching encrypt like everyone is. So as we dive into this topic, let's keep in mind Voegele's words and adopt the mindset of encrypting like everyone is watching high level here. Let's talk about the different encryption options. Now, these encryption options aren't necessarily specific to Amazon S3 but of course, since this is an Amazon S3 deep dive course, that's the example I'm going to use here. So we have our clients or our user or it could be an application over here on the left with our person. And of course we have our S3 bucket. So the first option that we have for our data before we ever even think about moving it to a cloud or any other device is, well, we can encrypt it using something like an AWS encryption SDK or other options that we have available to us on premises. If your data currently lives on premises, we can use what's called client side encryption in order to encrypt it in our data center. Before we ever move it to the cloud, we may have something like an HSM or other solutions on prem that we can use to encrypt our data and then we can move that data into our bucket. So in that case we control everything in regards to encryption, we manage the keys, we manage all aspects about encryption. The only thing we do for Amazon is we simply just put that in our bucket. It's just a simple place to store our encrypted data. Now when we do move that data from our data center, our home or whatever up into Amazon. S3 Well, we're going to go across some connectivity. That connectivity could be across the public Internet. It could be across something like a direct connect or a VPN or some other connectivity through a partner that allows our data to be moved from our data center into Amazon's cloud. Now, when we do that, what we need to do is make sure that our data is encrypted in transit and we would do this using TLS. And when I say we would use TLS, well, by default, that's going to happen because Amazon S3, the API is going to be secured by an Amazon certificate and naturally our client is going to negotiate a secure tunnel between the data center or whatever client is going to transfer that data to Amazon S3 API or ultimately the S3 service. So by default, we're going to be able to use TLS to secure our data in transit. That, of course, means when that data is moving across the wire, when it's moving from your data center to Amazon, S3, whatever wire it goes across, whether it's fiber, whether it's copper, whether it's satellite, whatever, we want to make sure that data, when it's moving, is encrypted. And this is called in-transit encryption. And the final one here is, well, what happens when our data lands in our bucket? What happens when it's written to a device inside of Amazon's data center? Well, in order to encrypt our data in a bucket, we have multiple options here. So we have what's called server side encryption. That means when our data lands on the server, when it lands on the device, on the target platform, which in this case it's Amazon S3, it's going to be encrypted by that service using some key. It's going to write that data in an encrypted format. We're relying on the target platform again, in this case Amazon S3 in order to encrypt our data. That's called server side encryption. And a lot of times we refer to that as encryption at rest when we write the data to disk, when the data is sitting on the disk, that's generally called encryption at rest. So again, Amazon provides us with multiple ways in order to perform encryption at rest when we write our data to Amazon S3 So hopefully this brief introduction into the different options for encryption really helps set the stage for this encryption topic. And you better understand the different options that you as a customer have before you write any data to Amazon S3.

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Client-Side Encryption

So the first one that I want to talk about here is client side encryption. So client side encryption means that you are going to encrypt that data before you ever upload that to Amazon. S3 So you have some level of a key that's been created by some platform in your data center or at home or by some application. You as a client, you manage that entire encryption process. You have your data somewhere, maybe in some storage platform on prem, and then you are going to use some kind of key and some process in order to encrypt that data on prem, probably going to make a copy of it and it's going to be stored somewhere in an encrypted fashion. In this case, you manage the encryption keys and all the tools itself in order to manage this process. So basically you own everything about this encryption process. So when you upload that data to S3, it's encrypted. When you download it from S3, it gets decrypted by your own process. Now you have what's called client side Master Key, which you own the key. You also have the ability to use an AWS KMS key in order to encrypt the data on prem as well. If you want to manage the encryption process, but you still want to manage the encryption keys for you, maybe you don't have a solution on prem or you know what, we're just going all in on AWS, so we want to manage that for us. Well, you can actually create a KMS key and you can actually use that to encrypt all your data on prem. Again, you still manage the encryption process, but the keys are now managed in Amazon, S3 or KMS. A few of the use cases that where it makes sense to use client side encryption include. When you have sensitive data storage, you want to ensure that nobody can read that except for yourself, not even Amazon. You can use client side encryption for that if you have regulatory compliance, meaning I can never write my data in an unencrypted fashion. It must be encrypted before we move it. That's another use case. Risk mitigation. If you just want to be sure that no one ever has access to that data, if you want full control over your encryption process, that's client side encryption is going to meet those needs. And finally, data sovereignty requirements. If you have that, then you may want to use client side encryption to ensure that no one can decrypt your data regardless of where you move it. So again, this is client side encryption. Again, the focus is really you managing the encryption process using some key. Now again, whether that key lives somewhere on prem or you consume a key that's been created in AWS kms.

---

### Lecture: Using Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3

The next one I want to talk about is server side encryption, and that's generally going to be abbreviated as SSA. So, you know, the world of it, everything relies on abbreviations. So if you see SSA, make sure you know that that is server side encryption. In this scenario, here we have our objects that are not yet encrypted. Maybe these are objects that live in our data center. It could be customer data, it may be data that includes some sensitive data like Social Security numbers, credit card numbers, something like that. Maybe there's simply logs that are being outputted from your application that may contain some sensitive data. It really doesn't matter in this case, but in this scenario, we have objects in your data center at home, at wherever that are not yet encrypted. And what we want to do is we want to ensure that when we upload these objects into Amazon S3, they are encrypted at rest using keys that reside in AWS. If we take our object and we go ahead and upload these so for example, this object, it's going to be encrypted with a key and it's going to look different from the object that we uploaded. So that's why the circle turned into a diamond here, because now that's our same data, but now it's encrypted with the key that was used to encrypt our data. And so as we continue to upload our data, we can either choose to use the same key for all of our data, or we can choose to use multiple keys for our data. That's the reason I'm changing colors here for each individual object is because maybe we want to use different keys. Maybe we have a key for prod, maybe we have a key for dev. ET cetera. And we want to ensure that our data is encrypted using the desired key. So as we continue to upload data, of course it continues to be encrypted at rest and then stored in our S3 bucket. Keep in mind that when you do use SSC, the key that is used to encrypt your data follows what's called envelope encryption in order to protect the key itself. So we have our encryption key that's used to encrypt our data. And then we also have another key, a master key or a management key in order to encrypt our encryption key. Now that encrypted encryption key is stored alongside of our data. So that's why I'm showing the key alongside of our data inside of our bucket. Now, keep in mind, though, even if we are uploading our data from our data center into our bucket and our data is encrypted at rest using keys that live in AWS, keep in mind that our objects are still encrypted in transit. We're still using TLS in this process to move data from our data center into Amazon. S3 So even on the wire, when we are transferring our data from our data center into AWS, even if we're moving unencrypted objects, well, it's still encrypted in transit using TLS. Don't think that you're sending unencrypted objects across the wire. It's still encrypted using TLS. Then when it lands on AWS, it's decrypted. And then finally, the key encrypts that object and then it writes it to the bucket. At no place in time during the transfer of this data, was your data ever written anywhere or accessible anywhere in clear text? From an AWS perspective, let's take a look at the server side encryption types that are offered by AWS. So on the left we have SSC, Dash, S3. Now this is going to provide managed keys for you from S3 and it's going to enable automatic encryption on upload of any of your objects. This is really suitable for general use cases where you really don't need to manage the key or the policies that are associated with the key. You just need to know that your data is encrypted. So SSC, S3 really offers a good balance between security and convenience, automatically encrypting data on upload with keys managed by AWS. Again, it's well suited for a broad range of applications here. SSL C, on the other hand, allows clients to supply and manage their own encryption keys from their own solution. Maybe on prem, this offers a higher level of control and it's particularly useful when compliance requirements demand client manage keys. So if you haven't gathered it yet, the C for Dash C really stands for customer provided keys. It gives you high level of control because now you manage the key that is used for encryption. You can rotate that key whenever you need. You can manage that key, you can manage who has access to that key from your own solutions on prem. The final one on the right here is C dash kms. Now the name should give it away a little bit because we talked about KMS a little bit, but this is essentially the same thing except for the keys are now managed using AWS. James, you would go into KMS and you can create your own CMC's in there by doing so. You have full control over all of the keys that you create. You can manage the policies, you can manage who can use these keys, you can rotate these keys, etcetera. You have fine grained access control when you're using SSC, Dash kms. This really provides the highest level of control and transparency because now everything is auditable since we are now using another service. Well, everything that happens on S3 and ultimately going to consume keys in KMS, well, all of that is going to be logged in logs in Cloudtrail and all the other solutions that you use in native AWS solutions in order to log activity that's going on within your accounts, fully auditable, fine grained access control using KMS. This really makes it the ideal solution for protecting your sensitive data and meeting very stringent compliance needs. I present to you the three types of encryption types that are available on S3. So we're going to go into each one of these in detail.

---

### Lecture: SSE with Amazon S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3)

The first one is Xk with S3 Managed Keys or SK Dash S3. Now what's going to happen is that each object uploaded is going to be encrypted with a unique generated encryption key before it's stored on disk. Now this ensures that data is secure and it's almost impossible to decrypt without that specific key. Now, object specific keys are going to be encrypted using that master key like I talked about before, using envelope encryption. So this adds that extra layer of security and it keeps the stored data safe, even if the object specific key becomes compromised. Now, the object specific key, they're relatively small. There are few tens of bytes each, and it makes their management very efficient on S3. Now these keys are decrypted and re-encrypted with a new master key. When the master key is rotated and it leaves the original data untouched. Old versions of the keys are discarded, which further enhances security. So on the screen here, you can kind of see the process and I've got it outlined with some animation here. For example, here when we upload our new object called Robot Jpeg, we have a unique data key that gets created for that particular object. Now, of course, that key is encrypted, what's called our master key. So now our encryption key, our unique encryption key for the object is now protected with our master key. When we upload another object, maybe owl dot Jpeg, we have a unique key for that object. And again, that key is encrypted with our master key. And finally, if we upload another object again unique key for fish dot jpeg. But again that key is encrypted with the master key again. Now keep in mind that just because we're using that master key to encrypt all of our other keys doesn't mean that we can't manage that master key itself. By default. Amazon automatically rotates that master key for us. That's the downside to using S3 is that we don't have control over that. Amazon S3 is going to do that for us automatically on the back end. So if you don't want control over that, you just want to hand off that functionality to S3. Well, this is the perfect solution because now you have all the security that you require and none of the administrative functions that come with managing such a secure platform. So that would be the perfect solution for you. So let's take a look at some of the key points here for S3. It is the default encryption method for new objects. We already talked about all the defaults when we're creating buckets and the default encryption for any new buckets is going to be SS Dash S3. Now that's assuming that we don't go in there and change it to SS dash kms like we talked about. Now this is built in object level encryption. Of course it's using APIs to 56 bit encryption. So it is the strongest that's available. S3 manages the key for you. You have no control over rotation or policies for you. That may be a good thing because like, I don't want to mess with it. I just need a secure platform that's going to follow all the industry standards. And I don't want all the administrative work that comes with managing that. Although on the flip side, that may be a bad thing for you. If your organization has security policies that say we need to rotate our key, we need to manage the policies for our keys, SS Dash S3 is probably not going to work for you. That's going to be where you move over to customer managed keys or you're going to move over to SQ dash kms so you can manage that key. Continuing on with dash S3 keep in mind that SE encrypts only the object data itself. It doesn't actually encrypt the metadata that's associated with that object.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Using Amazon S3 SSE-S3

All right. In this demo, we're going to quickly look at SSE Dash S3. Now, based upon previous labs, we already know that we've set the bucket default on our buckets to use dash S3. In fact, we already know that that is the default setting for our buckets. So if we go into Amazon Deepdive here and then we go over to our properties, if we scroll on down, you can see actually for this bucket, we change the defaults to use Xkms instead of SRC S3, which is the default. Now what we can do is we can actually modify our objects and we can actually change them from CMS over to S3 if we want. So let's look at this course cover here and let's determine how it is encrypted. This one is using the default encryption for this bucket, which is SSE dash kms. Now, if we wanted to change the encryption type for this particular object, well, we can easily do it right here by clicking edit and then we can override the bucket settings for default encryption right here and we can choose SSH dash S3 All right. So we can easily change the encryption methodology for individual objects inside of our bucket if we want to. And of course we just click save and then there we go. All right. So now if we look at our object, we scroll down. Now we're using server side encryption with Amazon S3 Managed Keys or SSC, Dash S3. All right. So really easy to do that. You can actually modify it for multiple items. All right. So if you click on multiple items inside of your bucket and then we go to actions and we edit the server side encryption right here, again, we can change it from multiple items. So all of these are encrypted with the default configuration of SS dash kms, we can override that, we can choose S3 and then we can hit save changes and that would modify all of our objects to use dash S3 if we wanted to. Now, the other thing I want to showcase is we can choose SSC, Dash S3 when we're uploading objects. So I've got some objects over here that we can upload to our bucket. So over here I'm going to click on upload, we'll grab some of these objects and actually these are all the PDFs from this course, all the slides. We'll drag and drop that over here and we can choose to override the default so we can specify an encryption key, We can override the bucket settings for default encryption, and we can choose SSC, Dash S3 Okay, So that's a way you can upload your objects using S3 if you want to. Even if you have a default configuration on your bucket that uses a different encryption type, you can easily select Dash S3 if you want to when you're uploading objects as well. So we'll go ahead and leave that. We'll go ahead and upload them. This shouldn't take but a second. They are larger files because they're bigger PDFs. All right. So all of those files have successfully uploaded. So if we click on close and we go into our bucket, you can see all these PDFs down here. Of course, if you click on one of them and view all the attributes of this particular object, if you scroll down, you can see right here we are using SSH dash S3 okay? And obviously we can change it if we wanted to, right? We can use the default settings. We can go down here, we can modify it, we can add the new dual layer server side encryption configuration if we wanted to. And obviously if you use KMS, we can also choose to use a bucket key which is enabled per bucket. So that's it for this one. Just wanted to showcase how we can use SRC, S3, modify existing objects and select SRC dash S3 when we're uploading objects. Even if we have a default configuration set on the bucket.

---

### Lecture: SSE with AWS Key Management Service Keys (SSE-KMS)

Let's talk about dashcams. So we've got our same scenario here where we have our unencrypted objects. We have our client and we want to move all of our data into S3. In this case, what we want to do is have our objects encrypted at rest. But now we want to use KMS keys instead of the S3 manage keys. So what we need to do now is we need to introduce KMS. Hopefully you're already familiar with KMS, but KMS is key management service and it allows us to create asymmetric or symmetric keys that are managed by AWS and we can simply use those keys for different functions inside of AWS to encrypt data. When you use KMS, we have the option to create different keys. We have a production key, we have a dev key and on most services we also have a default key that we can use. Now when we send unencrypted data from our data center, what it's going to do is going to upload our data, it's going to encrypt our data with the desired key. We are going to tell Amazon S3 which key we want to use in order to encrypt that data. If we uploaded that data there and said, you know what, we want to encrypt this data using the dev key. Well, the dev key is now used to encrypt that object. Now we upload additional data, we can encrypt that with the production key. Maybe as we continue to add more data to production. Key is now used to encrypt that object as well. Keep in mind that when we're using S3 dash kms now we are using keys that are created and managed in the KMS service in order to encrypt our data at rest inside of our Amazon S3 bucket. And of course, just like SSL dash S3, our data is still encrypted in transit using TLS. So at no point would our data have been written or been accessed in an unencrypted state except for our data center, of course. But as soon as we transfer that to Amazon S3, our data is encrypted in transit using TLS, then of course it is encrypted using our KMS key when we're using SSL dash kms. Let's talk about the key points of KMS here. Of course, it uses a key from AWS KMS service. It can use the default AWS managed CMK, but you are limited to modifying policies on the default key. That's why I generally tell people not to use the default key that's created in KMS. When you start integrating that with the service because it does not allow you to modify the policies on that default key. I recommend that you go create a new customer managed CMK. So in that way you can control policies, you create the rotation, aliases, all that good stuff. You have full control over that key. Now remember, CMCs aren't free. They are a dollar a month. Just be cognizant of that. But if you're spending tons of money on Amazon S3 by storing a ton of data and of course you want to encrypt that $1 a month is probably nothing. But if you're practicing using Amazon S3 in a home lab or in your personal account or something like that, just keep in mind that they are a dollar a month. I actually personally ran into this where I was being charged, you know, 10 or $15 a month for CMCs that I forgot I had created. So just keep in mind that maybe you want to limit how many CMCs you create in your personal account if they're being charged to you. So that wraps up everything with SSC kms.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Using Amazon S3 SSE-KMS

All right. So now that we know more about SSC, dash kms, let's go ahead and play around with it in the AWS management console. So in the S3 console, we have our buckets. Let's go into our Amazon S3 Deep-dive Bucket and we just uploaded a bunch of PDFs using the SSC Dash S3 encryption. Now remember, inside of a bucket, we can have different files that are encrypted in different ways. So for example, if we upload additional files to our bucket, say these other few PDFs that we did not add before, well we can go ahead and encrypt these specifically with KMS. So if we scroll down here, we can say specify an encryption key. Now the default configuration for this bucket again is already using KMS and it's already using the key that we want. So really we wouldn't have to do anything in order to upload these particular files and have them encrypted with KMS because well, that's already the default for this particular bucket. Okay. But let's take a look to see what happens if it's not the default. So let's go into our Amazon deep dive public bucket and you can see the properties of this bucket. The default encryption is SSC, Dash, S3. All right, That is the default. So if we want to upload objects into this bucket, I'm going to go over here and grab these. Go ahead and drag and drop, and then we'll scroll down, click on properties again, we'll scroll down. And of course now the default is SSC, S3 and we want to override it. So we're going to specify an encryption key. We're going to override the bucket settings because we don't want SSA Dash S3, we want SSC Dash KMS. So we're going to select that. And now we can choose from our existing AWS keys, or you can enter an AWS key Arn if that key lives in a different account. So here I'm going to drop this down. I have three kms keys now. The one down here at the bottom just says AWS S3 That is an AWS managed key. Now you can definitely select that if you want to. However, there are limitations with an AWS managed key, meaning you cannot manage the policy of that particular key. All right. It's an AWS managed key. However, in this account I have created my own key and this key is S3 production data and it is a customer managed key. All right. That means I can go modify the policies and anything about that key. So I'm going to select that key and then we can scroll down and we can simply hit upload. Now it's going to upload these files and it shouldn't take too long. They're a little bit big, but it should take about 30s or so. And when they are written to storage, well, Amazon S3 is going to encrypt those using the data key that is generated from that particular KMS key. All right. So I'm going to hit close here. And here is one of those PDFs that we just uploaded. If we scroll down here, you can see that even though the bucket default was SSC Dash S3, this particular object is encrypted using SSC kms with this particular key. Now notice that I did not select Bucket Key here. Now, again, a bucket key is used to encrypt all your new objects into a bucket. And what's going to happen? It's going to create that data key. It's going to store it inside of the bucket. And then S3 will use that data key to encrypt new objects. And it's going to reduce the amount of calls that you send to KMS ultimately with a goal of reducing the costs of KMS. Now the downside is you can't modify the use of a bucket key when you go edit. So if you click on edit here, if you go down, we're going to say override bucket settings. We want KMS, we want to choose our key. If we select our key here. Notice we don't get the option to change our bucket key. Right. You can only do that at the bucket level. So I'm going to click on cancel here. All right, so that's how we can upload objects using SSC dash kms. Now, of course, we can also modify existing objects to move over from SSC, S3 or another encryption type to use KMS. So go to our avatar dot PNG and scroll down. You can see that it is using the default of SSC S3. I can click on edit, I can override the bucket settings, I can select KMS, I can choose from our existing keys and let's for the fun of it, choose the manage key. Then I can scroll down and click on Save Changes. Cool. So we have now modified that object to now use SSC dash kms. So if we scroll back down to the attributes of this particular object, you can see now we're using KMS. And now we're actually using that manage key from AWS. We're not using the customer manage key, we're using the AWS manage key. All right, Now let's try one more thing. If we go out of here and we go back to our buckets and let's look at this. Brian Krausen Bucket Private. Now, there are a couple things in here. Let's look at the properties and go down to default encryption. We are using S3. If you click on edit. We can modify this default configuration. So let's change it to KMS. We're going to choose our existing key and choose our S3 production data. Now we have the option to select a bucket key. So again, it's going to create that data key, save it in our bucket and use that to minimize the number of calls that go out to AWS KMS so we can click on Save Changes. And now we've modified that bucket in order to change the default configuration. So again, scroll down, here is our default configuration and now we have a bucket key enabled in this particular account. Now the one thing I want to call out really quickly, earlier in another lab we talked about and showcased that if you try to make objects public or when you share them with anybody else, say within your account or with another account, you need to make sure that you give the proper permissions for those users to be able to use that key in order to decrypt those objects that are encrypted with that KMS key. Remember when you encrypt an object using a KMS key. Well, we also need that KMS key to decrypt the object so we can read it. So anybody who you are sharing that object with needs access to be able to decrypt that object using that KMS key. And that means any bucket that's going to be public and serve assets to the general public. Well, unless you're going to give everyone access to that key, you're not going to be able to use KMS to encrypt that data. So you probably want to use SSH dash S3. So that's it for this one. Hopefully you better understand how to modify and configure your buckets and objects to use. Ssh dash kms.

---

### Lecture: SSE with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C)

Let's talk about C, dash C or customer provided keys. So our same scenario here. We have our objects that are not encrypted. We want to place those objects in our bucket, but now we want to encrypt that data at rest using our own keys. So what we would do is we would create our own encryption keys on prem using some solution that we have. And when we upload that data, we would tell S3, Hey, you know what? Go ahead and encrypt this data with this particular key when it's written. Now, when this happens, Amazon S3 doesn't actually store the provided key. It only stores a key. And the reason it does that is because when you go to decrypt the object, it's going to compare the provided key with the key that's been written for that object. And it's going to say, okay, that is the correct key to use to decrypt the object. So you send along the encryption key with the object when you are sending the data to your bucket. Amazon S3 uses that key to encrypt that data. It creates a key and it gets rid of the encryption key, doesn't store it alongside of it. So again, if we have our other encryption key, we're storing other data. It writes that key and then finally this data as well. It encrypts that data and it stores that key for that. Again, throws away the key, but only stores really a reference to that key. And just like anything else, again, the objects are still encrypted in transit. Now a couple key points about C dash C you store and manage your own encryption keys. So if your organization demands that, well, you need to manage your own keys and have full control over it, well, this is going to be the solution for you. You send the encryption key as part of the request. When you send a put to Amazon S3, you say, Hey, I want to put this object into my bucket. Oh, by the way, here's the encryption key that I want you to use to encrypt the data you send that encryption key as part of your request. Now, S3 is going to manage the data encryption for you as it writes to disk, and it's going to decrypt the object. When you read the object, you're going to download that object. S3 does not store the encryption key anywhere. Like I mentioned, it only stores that randomly salted value of your key for validation for future requests. At no time does the encryption key get written to storage anywhere by using C dash C, you get 100% full control over the keys that are used to encrypt your data. Let's compare the three options here that we have. C dash S3, C, dash KMS and C dash C So you can see I've got a comparison here. We have managed key policies. Again, we can't manage the key policies when we have S3 or KMS and of course KMS, we can manage the policies if we create it a CMK, if it's a customer managed CMK, If you're using the default key, you cannot manage the key policies. Now encryption processes are not written to cloudtrail logs if you're using SSH, S3 but they are used if you're using SSH dash kms and C dash C key rotation is available in all three. It just depends on how often you can rotate it. So key rotation for S3 it is rotated regularly by S3 but you don't have control over it. You can't say, Hey, I want to rotate this key every six months. Amazon S3 is going to do that for you. KMS keys are regularly rotated if you're using the default key, but if you create your own key, you can actually click a checkbox that says go ahead and rotate this once a year. They are rotated by AWS, KMS and this standpoint. And finally, if you're using C dash C, well, you can rotate those as often as you need because you have full control over the key data share ability is impacted by encryption. Yes, we can share data stored on Amazon S3 if we're using Dash S3 because S3 is managing those keys. However, if you're using something like SSC Dash KMS, you can't share that data unless you also share the key that's used to store encrypt that data. If you have a bucket with data that's encrypted using a KMS key and you only share that bucket, you only give permission to maybe another account or something like that to access your data. Well, you would also need to give them permission to access your KMS key that's used to encrypt that data. And finally, if you are sharing data with a customer managed key, you can do that. Of course you need to share the key with whoever is accessing that data. Now, default behavior As of January 2023, we are going to use dash S3 for all new. Objects. That is the default. None of the others are default. However, as we talked about in the buckets section, you can change the default behavior for encryption for new objects to use SSL dash kms if you want to, but by default it's always going to use SSL S3 unless you change it. Good comparison here between the three options.

---

### Lecture: In-Transit Encryption

Finally, let's talk about in-transit encryption. So by default, S3 will use Https that is secured by a TLS certificate that is minted by Amazon itself. Now, that, of course, is going to encrypt the data when it is transferred from a client to Amazon S3. However, keep in mind that Http is permitted by default. You can have a client that says, Hey, go upload my data and the URL that they use. If it's Http, well by default, S3 is going to accept that request. Now you can prevent that with a policy as part of your Iam policy or bucket policy. You can actually say, Hey, I don't want you to accept any data that is not secure. That is an option. And in fact, I have that policy here for you so you can use the condition secure transport to deny any Http requests. So it's called secure transport. You want to put that in your condition when you are providing access to your bucket here. So in this case, this denies all actions on the bucket when the request is Http. So there are different ways that you can add this to your policy. But again, this is a way that you can use this condition to ensure or force people to use Https or TLS when they're uploading data into your bucket. By the way, if you're taking any AWS certification exams, this tends to pop up on a lot of them a way that we can ensure secure transport of our data when we're uploading data into Amazon S3. That wraps up all the encryption topics that I had here. Hopefully that's useful. You understand the three different types of encryption and of course the three different types of server side encryption that you have available to you in Amazon S3.

---

### Lecture: Demo - In-Transit Encryption

All right. Let's quickly touch on in transit encryption when we were working with Amazon S3. So we have multiple buckets. Again, we have our Amazon S3 Deepdive and our Deepdive public. We're going to work with our public one in this example. So I'm going to go into the bucket and we already know that these objects are public, right? This big red notification on the top. If we click on Avatar and click on our item, we can actually see our object come up. All right, that's cool. Now what we can do is validate the object URL. The object URL here is https, colon slash, slash, and then our name. All right. So when we click on it at the top, we have a lock. We are secure. Now, if we go up and modify our URL and take off the S and hit enter and then maybe even hit refresh, we can see we can also get our object and we are not using Https. We're actually going over Http in this case. All right. So we have no in-transit encryption when we are interacting with our bucket. If we take off the Https in front of our URL now by default again, Amazon S3 permits Http requests to your bucket, but maybe that's not something we want for our organization, so we want to go ahead and modify that. All right. So let's go back to the console here and we're going to fix that. So we're going to go into our bucket and we're going to look at our permissions. And our permissions are simply, hey, allow anybody access to the bucket. All right. That's cool. That's what we want. But we also want to block access to our bucket and our objects if you are coming in on an insecure protocol. All right. So let's go to edit here and we're going to edit our bucket policy. Now let's go over to VS Code and take a look at what we have here. We have in addition to our policy. So I'm going to copy that. I'll paste it in here and then we'll walk through it. So I'm going to go into our statement. I'm going to hit enter, I'm going to paste in our change and then let's take a look at it. So our new permission inside of our bucket policy says enforce TLS. The effect is deny the principle is anti body again makes sense because this is a public facing bucket. The action is any S3 action right put object get object list tags like whatever anything that deals with S3. That's what we're applying this to. Now, the resource we're applying this to is Amazon S3 Deepdive Public because that's the bucket we're working with, but we want to make sure we apply that to all objects inside the bucket and the bucket itself. And finally, we have this condition down here and this condition says if you are not accessing Amazon S3 on a secure transport, a secure protocol, right, false, then I am going to apply this rule which will deny any of your actions that you're trying to perform against this bucket. Now, if you are coming in right, this doesn't match. This entire rule is not applied and then this rule is applied. Meaning I can go get any object inside of this bucket. Okay. So that's what our new bucket policy looks like. This is the key right here. This condition secure transport is false. Okay. The other way you can do that, by the way, is you can add this condition just to this rule right here. And you can say secure transport is true. All right. So it may simplify the rule a little bit, but I wanted to break it out separately so you fully understand what's going on. So we have our new bucket policy. We're going to save the changes here, and then we're going to go back to our object. We're going to click on our avatar again, and we expect we should be able to access it, right? No problem. Now, if we go up here and we change our URL again to remove the S and hit enter, it comes up, but I think it's just cached. If I actually refresh this then we get access denied. Okay. So you can see we are accessing Amazon S3 under an insecure protocol, right? Http and we get access denied. Now if we go back up to our URL and type in https colon slash, slash and hit enter, there we go. We get access to our object. So by changing that bucket policy, we are able to block anybody that's accessing our bucket coming in under an insecure protocol, meaning Http, and they're not using TLS to access our bucket and that ensures that we have in-transit encryption between all of our clients and our S3 bucket and objects.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Bucket Versioning

Continuing on learning how we can protect our data that we're storing in Amazon S3. Let's introduce versioning. So again, I mentioned versioning earlier in a topic here, but we're going to dive deep into versioning and how we use it and all that good stuff. So what is versioning? Well, it provides us with this additional layer allowing us to create versions of objects in our S3 bucket. Beyond having encryption in place, we can use versioning. That adds a significant layer of data protection for our objects. So S3 is a powerful, user friendly feature that provides us with this additional layer of any of our objects inside of a bucket. It allows us to store multiple variants or versions of our object that would exist in a bucket concurrently. So by enabling our S3 versioning, we really are equip ourselves with this safeguard against both unintended user actions and application failures with versioning any modification or deletion to an object. It does not write or permanently remove the original one. Instead, what it does is it creates a new version of that object and S3 retains all the previous versions for us. This way we can easily recover to a prior version if we accidentally delete it or we accidentally overwrite it, or if something happens to our object. Now, once versioning is enabled and it's enabled per bucket, it cannot be disabled, which can be a benefit of protecting our data. Now you can suspend versioning on your bucket, which will instruct S3 to no longer create copies of the old data, but any existing data will still remain in your bucket. So suspending versioning doesn't delete your data or anything like that. Now you can also manage the lifecycle of versions using lifecycle rules, or you can roll back to previous versions if you need to. That way you can tell S3 to only maintain older versions for a certain number of days to minimize costs and the number of versions that are stored for each individual object. A lot of good stuff here for versioning. Let's talk about some of the benefits we get when we're using versioning with Amazon S3 The first one is that we generate a distinct version for each object upload. Again, a distinct version is key here. We keep all past versions intact without overwriting them. So it really makes for this great backup tool if we're writing data and then we accidentally overwrite it, well, we can get the old data. It does safeguard us against accidental user deletion. So if somebody in your organization accidentally sends a delete command against certain objects or all objects in a bucket or whatever, these deletion requests only hide the object. It actually preserves the underlying data. So we'll talk more about deletions in a minute in more detail. Another benefit of versioning is it allows us to administer past versions through lifecycle management so we can move or set expiration for objects for a certain number of days after they are no longer the current version. So a lot of benefits by using versioning. So let's take a look to see what this looks like. We've got our S3 bucket on the right and we've got a object on the left. We've got key equals robot Jpeg. Maybe again, it's our robot that we're building or something and we're uploading a picture or whatever as we progress with building it. So we have our file and we want to put our object cool. We write an object easy enough. We've done that before. We have our new object with a key of robot jpeg on here. And notice now, because we have versioning enabled on this bucket, we now have a version ID as part of our metadata associated with that object. The version ID in this case is one, 212, one. Now as we continue working on our robot or our project or our file or whatever, and we have an updated one, maybe we've made progress on it and now we want to upload that to our bucket so maybe we can share that or our application can retrieve it or whatever it is. Now again, we do a put to our bucket and notice now what happens is we simply write another object on there. We don't actually get rid of the old object. So notice now that our second object in our version bucket is still key equals robot Jpeg. The version id now is two three, two, three two. It's different than our first version. And finally, if we are uploading our object again, maybe we've made some more changes to it. We're progressing on our document. Maybe this is the final version or something like that. Again, we can put that data in S3 and again we write a new. Version of our object. The key is still the same robot jpeg. And now we have a new version. Three, four, three, four, three. So in this case, even though it's the same object, the same key, not necessarily the same object because we've modified it, but we have the same key out there. We actually are storing three different versions of this particular object in S3. Imagine if this last iteration was not something that we wanted. We could go back to the previous version if we wanted to or all the way down to the first version if we needed to. It gives us that flexibility to not overwrite the existing object, but we can still retrieve the latest object when we need it.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Enabling Bucket Versioning

All right, let's talk versioning. Now, the first thing we're going to do in this demo is simply enable versioning on our bucket. So we're going to go to our Amazon S3 Deep-dive bucket here and then we go down here and under bucket versioning, we can click on edit and of course we can enable it right here. Now there's this message saying that there's a lifecycle rule attached to this bucket based upon a previous lab. So one thing you might want to do is just make sure that you validate your lifecycle rules. Remember our lifecycle rule way back in the course where we modified current objects and not the older version of objects. Right? So you may need to update your lifecycle rules to manage previous versions of your objects as you go. All right. So we're going to click on Save Changes here and now we've enabled versioning, right? Super easy to do that. Now let's go ahead and add some more objects now underneath of our objects. We've already got 25 objects in this bucket, but we've been working with this avatar file already. So let's go ahead and take a look at that. Well, we have Avatar. If you click on versions, it says it is the current version. And since we enabled versioning after this object was already uploaded to the bucket, there's actually no version ID for this particular version. Okay. But let's go ahead and change that. So if we go back to the bucket here and let's look at our files, so I've got Avatar dot PNG right here. I have a version two and I have a version three. Now. Version one is the same one we've seen before with the logo. Let's look at version to version two is actually an avatar with a TerraForm logo. All right, so I've used that in other courses, so let's go ahead and upload that one. So if I drag that over here, we're going to upload Avatar. Notice this has the exact same key name or object name of Avatar dot PNG and because it has the exact same key name, it's going to create a new version of our key named Avatar dot PNG and it's going to replace or become the newest version of our avatar dot PNG object. So I'm going to scroll down and click on Upload and we're done with that. So close it out. Now again, we already have our avatar dot PNG, but if we click on it and we click on versions, now notice that we have two different versions. We've got our original that we saw before has the logo and now we have the newest version, which is again now the current version of our Avatar dot PNG object in our bucket. And this is the version that has the purple TerraForm shirt on. All right. So if you actually look at this one right here and you do open. You can see it's our new Avatar logo here. All right. Now, if we go back one more time and we take a look at our files again, I've got a version three out here. This one has a blue hoodie. All right. So I'm going to drag and drop that on here. Go down, click on upload. Click on Close. Now we look at our Avatar object again. We look at versions. Now we have three different versions. Okay? And the latest version, the blue hoodie, is the one that we just created and it becomes our current version. Now, you can look at any of these versions if you want to, right? You can click on this one and you can click on Open. And of course, we have our purple here. If you go back and look at our avatar and look at versions, again, we can look at our latest version. We can even look at the old version. We can click that and say open and just look at our original version so you can actually view the older versions of a particular object when you have versioning enabled. Now the other thing you can do is you can delete old versions, right? So maybe we're satisfied with this new avatar picture. And you know what? We don't need to save the other one so we can actually go ahead and select these. We can click on delete. It's going to say we're going to delete these versions of this particular object. We're going to say permanently delete down here at the bottom, delete objects. Cool. We've deleted those versions of the object. Now, if I go back to Amazon Deepdyve, we still have an avatar dot PNG, but if you look at it now, click on versions. We only have a single version, right? And it's the current version. And of course that's the one with the blue hoodie on, right? So you can easily see how we can enable versioning inside of a bucket and then we can upload additional versions of our objects inside of our bucket. We can easily view the versions for a particular object. We can download or view the older versions of an object, and we can also delete older versions of an object as well.

---

### Lecture: Retrieving Objects in Versioned Buckets

Talking about retrieving an aversion to object. Let's discuss that. So we've got our S3 bucket on the left with our three objects that we just wrote, and we've got our handsome client over here. This client is going to say, you know what, I need to get robot Jpeg. Well, we've got three of them in our bucket. So what's going to happen here? Well, what happens is when a client or an application or whatever retrieves a object that has versioning enabled, it's always going to retrieve the latest version of the object. So retrieving an object in a version enabled bucket will always return the latest version. So in this case we are going to get robot Jpeg, but we're going to get version three for three for three, we're going to get that top one in the bucket there. So that's how that works. We're always going to retrieve the latest version of the object. Let's take one more look at this. What happens when our client says get robot? But you know what? We don't want the latest version. We want an older version. Maybe we want to make some updates or, you know, troubleshoot some errors. So maybe we want to say, you know what? We don't want the latest version. We want an older version so we can check it out. Well, when we make that get request, we can actually specify that we want version two, three, two, three, two. And guess what? Amazon does that. Well, we can retrieve a specific version of an object as needed from an S3 bucket that has versioning enabled a regular gets just a traditional get against that object is going to retrieve the latest version if that get also specifies the version of that object, we're going to get that specific version of the object. Now, assuming it exists, keep that in mind that any retrieval of an object is always going to retrieve the latest version unless you specify another version.

---

### Lecture: Deleting Objects in Versioned Buckets

So what happens when we delete objects in a version? Bucket works a little bit differently than a traditional bucket that does not have versioning. Now, when we delete an object, all the versions actually remain in the bucket. And what's going to happen is Amazon S3 actually inserts a delete marker as shown in the following figure. The delete marker now becomes the current version of the object. So this delete marker is actually called robot Jpeg, but it happens to be a delete marker by default. Any get requests are going to retrieve the most recently stored version. As I just said, if you perform a git object request when the current version is a delete marker, well Amazon S3 is going to return a 404 not found error. It's going to look like to the client that that file no longer exists or that object doesn't exist because there's a delete marker there. Keep in mind that a delete marker in S3 is simply a placeholder for a version object that was named in a simple delete request. So we had our client, our architect on the left just say, you know what, delete robot Jpeg. Well, rather than actually destroying it on disk, it stuck that delete marker in its place. And because this object is a versioned enabled bucket, the objects are not deleted, but the delete marker makes Amazon S3 behave as if it was deleted. So again, when you delete an object, all the versions in the bucket remain and S3 inserts that delete marker to showcase what this looks like. If our architect makes a get request for robot Jpeg and the latest version is our delete marker, well, Amazon again is going to return an error saying 404 not found. I don't have robot jpeg. Remember the delete marker becomes the current version of the object. It will result in a 404 not found, but in the back of your mind. Remember that all these objects actually still exist in S3 They're not destroyed from disk. We can retrieve them. And so let's talk about that. Let's talk about how we undelete a version object that was deleted. So again, we have our stack. We have our delete marker at the top here. If we say, Hey, I want to delete object four, four, 444, which happens to be our delete marker. Well what's going to happen is our delete marker goes away. Then if we make a traditional get request against our bucket, well it's going to return the latest version which is now 33333. In this case, now we have the ability to delete an object. But keep in mind this is enabled by using that delete marker, we can delete the delete marker, which now in a sense UN deletes our object because now if we make a request, we actually get the object returned to us. So remember, removing the delete marker will result in a get request to now retrieve the current version. I mentioned that we can suspend versioning earlier so version can be suspended, but it cannot be disabled once it has been enabled. Now maybe you only want a single version of an object or you know, maybe you want to save on costs and that could be a reason that we want to suspend versioning on our bucket. Keep in mind, any changes apply only to future requests. If we have a bucket, we've got tons of objects in there and we've overwritten those and those objects have different versions and all that good stuff. And then we turn around and suspend versioning. It does not delete our existing versions of existing data. The only thing that suspending versions will do is any future objects that we have. We will not use versioning for those future objects so it doesn't impact our data. So again, this is a benefit of using versioning because well, nobody can go delete versioning, disable versioning and delete all of our old versions. We can only impact what the future objects and versioning look like by suspending it.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Bucket Replication

The next way that we can protect our data in S3 is replication. Now, replication allows us to replicate objects from one bucket to another bucket. Replication will use automatic asynchronous copying of our objects. So if we place objects into one bucket, well object replication is going to automatically replicate that data over to a secondary bucket. And where that bucket lives is really dependent on where you need your data. Now it can live in the same region. It can live in a different region. It can actually live in different accounts as well. So it really depends on your use case and where and why you need to copy your data to the source and destination. Bucket can be in the same or different accounts. Generally in a large organization, say for log files, when I'm designing environments for customers, I always recommend to create maybe a logging account. And in that logging account there's an S3 bucket or multiple S3 buckets. And in all of our other production or workload accounts where applications are running, if we are doing any kind of logging, I have them copy that data maybe to a local bucket, maybe it's automatically sent to a local bucket, but then we replicate that to another bucket or we simply just point that to another bucket. So we have the ability to replicate data between the same account. So we have two different buckets in the same account, or we can go across accounts as well. Now keep in mind these buckets can be in different regions and it kind of gives you the ability to protect you against regional failures. So if you have all your data right now sitting in US East One, but you know, you're like, you know what? I'm afraid of a hurricane or tornadoes or something like that. That may impact us East one as an entire region. We can set up replication to replicate all of our data to either usds to us, West one, US West two, or even somewhere in Europe. We have that ability to replicate our data easily to another bucket that lives in another region. Now, when we're setting up replication, we can set it up to replicate to one bucket or many buckets. So maybe we need multiple copies of our data. We can set up our one bucket that includes our primary data to replicate across multiple buckets. And those multiple buckets may even be in different accounts and spread across different regions. Very flexible in terms of what we can do with data replication. Now when we're using replication, keep in mind that versioning must be enabled on both the source and the destination buckets. That was on purpose. We talked about versioning first. Now we're going to introduce replication because it requires versioning. All the configuration of replication is going to be done using rules. So you're going to go and create rules inside of AWS that says, You know what, I want this subset of data. I want this entire bucket, I want this prefix, I want to replicate that over to another bucket. All those are done with different rules. When we set up replication, we've got a lot of choices that we need to make on how our data is treated. Now the first thing we need to think about is encryption. We already talked about how we encrypt our data, but encrypted objects that live in S3 bucket can be re encrypted at the destination with the KMS key of your choosing or using S3 or whatever you need. When you set that up, you would specifically say, Hey, I want my data to be encrypted using this format when it lands at the destination bucket. Keep in mind that KMS keys are regional if you happen to be using KMS. And so you can say, okay, I want my data in US East one to be encrypted by production key number one and then I want my data in US West two that gets replicated to be encrypted with production key number two different keys would live in different regions when they are created. Now you can also change the storage class of your replicated objects. So if your replicated objects are simply a copy of your data and you're just making sure you have another copy somewhere, you're probably never going to use that well, it may make sense for you to change the storage class of that data to be a lower tier, so it's cheaper to replicate that and save that data in S3 In the other region. Maybe you can even go to Glacier or one of the infrequent access storage classes just to save on costs. So another choice you have is whether you want to replicate the delete markers or not. And of course, because this is a version bucket, we have delete markers by default when S3 replication is enabled and then an object is deleted in the source bucket, S3 actually adds a delete marker in the source bucket only it doesn't replicate the delete marker across to the other bucket. Now this protects. Data from malicious deletions. If you have delete marker replication enabled, the delete markers are copied to the destination bucket and S3 behaves as the object was deleted in both the source and the destination bucket. So it's really up to you on how you want S3 to behave regarding delete markers. Another feature you can use for replication is RTC or replication time control. RTC helps you meet compliance or some of these business requirements for data replication and helps provide visibility into S3 replication times. RTC will help replicate most of your objects that you upload in S3 within seconds. So it's super, super fast and it guarantees that 99.99% of those objects will be replicated to the other bucket within 15 minutes. So if you have data that's very critical and it must be copied over to maybe another region very quickly, you can use RTC to do that. Now there is an extra cost by using replication time control. But again, if you need that feature, you probably don't mind paying that small fee. And finally down here, you can automatically change ownership of the replicated objects to a different AWS account if you need. So if your other bucket happens to live in an AWS account, when that data is replicated from one S3 bucket to another, you can have it change ownership to that account if you want to. So again, lots of choices and things to think about when we're setting up replication, when we are setting up replication, there are more choices, of course, to figure out. Now what we need to do is select the data that we want to replicate. We can easily say, Hey, I want you to replicate everything in this entire bucket or you have the ability to limit the scope of the data that you want to replicate. Maybe you don't want the entire bucket to be moved over, but you just want a subset of the data to be moved over. Well, you have that ability as well. You can use replication to make copies of your objects that also retain all of its metadata, such as the original object creation times and the version IDs and all that good stuff. So if you use this capability, it's important that you ensure that your replica is identical to the source object here. And finally, one thing to keep in mind with replication replication only replicates new data. If I go to a bucket that already has a lot of data already inside of my bucket and I set up replication, well that's only going to impact existing data if you need to replicate existing objects that are already in that bucket, well you can use S3 batch operations. So let's talk about existing data versus new data that we were just mentioning. Existing data is not replicated. Any objects that already exist in the bucket before you enabled replication, they are not replicated to the other bucket. Only new data is going to be replicated objects placed in the bucket after you configure replication. That's what's automatically and asynchronously replicated. And finally, if you need existing data replicated, maybe you have a bucket that has a lot of data in it. And I don't know, maybe you have a new requirement that your data must be replicated to another region. Well, replication is not going to do that for you. You need to use S3 batch operations in order to copy these objects. So my example over here on the right, I've got two buckets Bucket A and bucket B, and before I enable replication, I've already got data in my bucket. So at this point I'm going to enable replication. I'm going to say any data in bucket A I want to replicate that to bucket. B Well, there's existing data over there, so it's not going to replicate it. However, when I write new data to bucket, a S3 replication is going to go ahead and replicate that data. But again, it will not replicate existing data. You must use S3 batch operations in order to copy those existing objects over to your bucket.

---

### Lecture: S3 Replication Limitations

Beyond replicating existing data. Let's talk about additional limitations that keep in mind. Now, if you have multiple buckets and you have multiple rules out there, replication will not replicate data that was created by another replication rule. So what does that actually mean? Well, say, for example, I've got these three buckets on the bottom. I've got bucket, A bucket B and bucket C and A create a rule in there that says I want all my data in bucket A to be replicated to bucket B, And finally, I want all my data in bucket B to be replicated to bucket C, So let's take a look at that data to bucket A and it gets replicated to bucket B. Now what's not going to happen is that data in bucket B will not be replicated to bucket C because the data in bucket B was created by another replication rule. However, if I do put an object into bucket B, replication will indeed replicate that data over to bucket C because that data was put directly into bucket B, it was not put there by another replication rule. So keep that in mind. If you have multiple rules out there, you will not actually replicate data that was created by another replication. Rule Replication will also not replicate data that was already replicated. If for some reason you changed the destination of an existing replication configuration, S3 will not replicate those objects again for you. Let's take a look at this. If we have Bucket A here and I have a rule that says, okay, I want all my data to be replicated from bucket A to bucket B, Cool. We write some data in there. We replicate all that data to bucket B, and then for some reason we're like, You know what? Maybe we want to change that. Maybe we want bucket A to now replicate to bucket C instead. Bucket A will not replicate that data again. So you would have to use something like an S3 batch operation in order to migrate that data from bucket A over to bucket C. Now any new data at this point that's written to Bucket A would now be replicated to bucket C, but it's not going to replicate that data that was already previously replicated. So one more to keep in mind here. Replication will not replicate data stored in glacier flexible retrieval or deep archive. Now this is probably a good thing considering, well, the retrieval costs of all your objects if they're living in flexible retrieval or deep archive and the time it might take to retrieve that data from those storage classes and then replicate those objects to the secondary bucket. Something to keep in mind here when you're setting up replication, if you have objects in standard, they'll easily be replicated over. But if you have objects in Glacier, it will not be replicated to bucket B So again, limitations to keep in mind here.

---

### Lecture: Cross-Region Replication

Let's quickly talk about different concepts of when we are setting up replication. We talked about these earlier, but we have cross region replication. So we've got our cloud accounts, got Usds one and EU West one. We have a bucket in US East one and we have a bucket in EU West one as well. Now if we want our data to be replicated across these regions, this is what's called cross region replication. So it's just another rule that you would configure and point to the bucket that happens to live in another region. Now keep in mind you can set up one or many replications to different buckets that live in different regions. So really quickly about cross region replication, why would you store your data in multiple bucket regions? Well, maybe compliance. So although Amazon S3 does store your data in multiple Azs within a region, well, maybe you have compliance requirements that dictate that you store data in even greater distances. I have worked with clients before that have very specific terms in regards to how far data centers and data needs to live. Some have been like 50 miles, some have been 500 or 1000 miles apart. Disasters wouldn't impact each one of those. So in order to satisfy those requirements, you can use cross region replication to replicate data between distant AWS regions. Now the next one is performance. So if you have customers into geographic locations or your applications live in multiple locations, well you can minimize the latency in accessing those objects by maintaining object copies in those different AWS regions that are geographically closer to your users. And finally, resiliency. Maybe you just want to maintain a secondary copy of your data in a different AWS region for operational resiliency. Just in the event that an AWS region becomes unavailable, you have your data living somewhere else. That's what cross region replication is and the benefits that you get from using cross region replication.

---

### Lecture: Same-Region Replication

The next concept is same region replication. Say, for example, we have multiple accounts in our organization and for security purposes, maybe one of those accounts is generating all of our logs based upon our workloads and we want to send all of our logs to another account for security purposes. Maybe if somebody happens to breach one of our accounts, well, all the data is stored in another account that's separate and we would have access to all of our logs for troubleshooting and fingerprinting and all that good stuff for security purposes. So in this case, even if we're not using multiple regions, there are benefits to using same region replication. So in this example we have account one, two, three, four, five on the left and we've got account nine, eight, seven, six, five on the right. We've got two buckets, one in each, maybe 98765 is for Dr. and we set up replication and of course we can automatically replicate data that is written to our bucket on the left into a separate account on the right. Again, that way if something happens to the account on the left, we've got all of our data on the right that's still protected in the event the account on the left gets breached or something like that. And from a disaster recovery standpoint, this could be even beneficial within the same account as well. Maybe the data on the left gets compromised, something like that. And you have access to the data on the right. Now why would I need a same region replication? Well, maybe log consolidation. We want to aggregate logs into a single bucket. And by the way, this is very popular in most organizations. Most organizations are going to store logs in multiple buckets or across accounts, and then we can easily replicate those logs into a single bucket within that same region. By doing so, that allows for simpler processing of logs in a single location. So if you're using something like Splunk or Sumo Logic or Datadog or any of those, you can simply point those tools to your single bucket instead of having to configure for those tools to point to 20 or 30 different buckets that logs are being written to. You can also configure live replication between production and test accounts. So if you have customers that have production and test accounts that use the same data, well, we can simply replicate those objects between multiple accounts while maintaining object metadata. So we can test on that production data if we need to. And finally, maybe we need to abide by data sovereignty laws. Maybe you are required to store multiple copies of your data in separate AWS accounts, but you may not have multiple region requirements. Maybe you don't want multiple region requirements, things like GDPR that stipulate that you cannot send that data outside of that region. Again, this is a perfect example of using same region replication so you don't actually violate these data sovereignty laws and pay big fines for that.

---

### Lecture: Bi-Directional Replication

The last concept I want to talk about really quick is bi directional replication. So we've got a bucket in US East one and we have a bucket in EU West one as well. Now maybe we want to set up replication to say any data that's written to us. East one, We want to also store that in EU West one, maybe we've got another data center or applications or customers or other teams out there that are performing analytics on this data. We can easily set that up to replicate that data over there. But we also want to say, okay, maybe our team in us one, maybe they're writing results or they're maybe they're writing other things to our bucket that we want to replicate that data back to us. East one Well, we can set up bi directional replication, which is just really creating another rule to say anything that's written to EU West one. We also want that to replicate to us East one, we can set up this bidirectional replication so we have the same data regardless of which bucket that that data was written to. So why would I need bi directional replication? Well, maybe we have shared data sets. Maybe we want to build these shared data sets across multiple AWS regions. Now with replication, you can easily replicate the metadata changes such as ACLs, object tags, object locks or replication objects across multiple regions. So this two way replication is really important If you want to keep all objects and all metadata changes in sync. The next one is keeping data synchronized across regions during a failover so you can synchronize your data between multiple AWS regions by configuring two way replication rules using cross region replication directly from a multiple region access point. So this would allow you to ensure that your data is the same in both of those buckets. That way you can properly fail over if you're failing over to another region and finally making your applications highly available. So even in the event of a regional traffic disruption, you can use two way replication rules to keep all metadata and objects in sync across your buckets during data replication. So these are all great examples of why you would need bidirectional replication.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Batch Replication

Let's touch on S3 batch operations. We talked about that we would need S3 batch operations to perform large scale batch operations on Amazon S3 objects. Remember, replication does not replicate existing objects, so we need existing objects migrated well, S3 batch operations is going to do the job for us now. S3 batch operations can perform a single operation on lists of Amazon S3 objects that you specify. So when you're setting up S3 batch operations, a single job can perform specified operation on billions of objects containing exabytes of data. So you can use one job to move tons and tons and tons of data. In this example here again, I've got two different buckets and two different regions. I've got existing data that lives in one bucket. Maybe at this point I've set up replication so anything new would be replicated, but the existing data would not be. So if we want to copy that data from one bucket to another, well we can simply use a batch operation, copy all that data to our second bucket. Remember, batch operations is a one time operation. It's not continuous replication. It gives us the ability to really seed a secondary bucket for continuous replication if we use our traditional rules. But again, it's a one time operation that moves objects from one bucket to another. In the event that we do write new data to our bucket, well, that data is not replicated using S3 batch operations because it's a one time operation. In the event that you created a replication rule between these buckets, then it would be replicated. But if you're only using batch operations, that new object that was written would not be replicated. So quick breakdown of S3 operations on where I would use it again, replicate existing objects is probably one of the primary use cases of using batch replication. In fact, for a long time S3 didn't even have a way to replicate existing objects natively. They didn't have their own tool, and so they finally introduced a tool that allowed us to do that and seed buckets here. Another reason we would use batch operations is to maybe replicate objects that previously failed to replicate. So in this case, we could filter a batch replication job to attempt to replicate objects with a replication status of failed. And finally, maybe we want to replicate objects that were already replicated. We talked about some of the limitations of replication. Well, maybe we do want those objects to be replicated to a new bucket. We might be required to store these multiple copies of your data in separate AWS accounts or regions or something like that. Batch replication can replicate existing objects to any newly added destinations. So that's batch operations for you.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Bucket Replication & Batch Job

All right. Now that we know more about S3 bucket replication, let's go ahead and jump back into the console and we are going to configure it. Now we have our list of buckets that we've been using up until this point, and we have our Amazon S3 deep Dive, which has about 25 different files that we've been adding throughout the course. Now what we're going to do is go ahead and set up a brand new bucket to go ahead and replicate all this data over to another bucket. And then we're going to add new data to this bucket and make sure that gets replicated as well. Now, if you remember from the lecture, when you set up replication, what replication does not replicate the existing objects? But what we can do is use S3 batch operations job in order to do that. And the cool thing is when you set up a rule and S3 recognizes that there are existing objects in your bucket, it will actually offer to create an S3 batch operations job to go ahead and move over all the initial objects, which is pretty cool. So what we're going to do is we're going to go back to buckets here and we're going to create a bucket because, you know, we already know about cross region replication, same region replication, bidirectional replication. So what we'll do is we'll go ahead and just replicate to another region. So I'm going to do Create Bucket and I'm going to call this bucket Bryan Clauson replicate to me and then we're going to choose us East two as the region. Everything we have now is in US East one and we're going to replicate over to the other region. Now we're going to leave everything else as the default For right now, we don't really care about that. Now we should enable bucket versioning, but I want to show you what it does when we actually create the replication rule. So I'm going to click Create Bucket, and then now we have our new bucket down here at the bottom. Bryan Carlson Replicate to me. So the next thing we need to do is we need to go into our Amazon S3 Deep-dive Bucket. We're going to go to management and we're going to create a new replication rule. So I'm going to click on Create Replication Rule, and we're going to enter a rule name. I'm going to say replicate. It objects to us. East two. All right, We're going to leave this enabled because we definitely want things to replicate. And what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and apply this to all objects in the bucket. Now, we could limit the scope, as we talked about in the lecture by prefix by tag, but we're going to go ahead and apply this to all objects in the bucket. Now we get to the point where we have to choose the destination like we know what we want to replicate. Now, where do we want to replicate it to? Well, what we're going to do is choose a bucket in this account because. Well, you just saw me create one. All right. So I'm going to go to browse S3 and we are going to choose our Brian Carlson replicate to me bucket. So I'm going to say Choose Path. Now, here's what I was talking about before. Replication requires versioning to be enabled. Now, we learned that in the lecture. However, I want to showcase that you can simply enable it right here. If you forgot to enable bucket versioning on your new bucket. So you can click here and it goes ahead and enables object versioning in your target bucket, which is pretty cool. So as we go down here, we can choose from existing roles. We can actually click on create a new role, which I will do. That way we have the proper permissions. Now we get to the encryption section. We can have any of our objects that are encrypted with KMS, we can have them replicated over to our other bucket as well. And what we would do is first we would choose the key for decrypting our source object, which would be our S3 production key, and then we would choose a target key, right? So when we move data from us East one over to us East two remember, KMS keys are a regional construct. That means when you create a key in US East one, well, it doesn't exist in US East two unless you tell it to create a multi-region key. So in this case I have not and I need to choose a key on the other side. Now we're not going to actually set this up, but I want to showcase that you can choose a KMS key from your account. So if you have a key that lives in US East two, you will be able to select it from this list here. And of course S3 would decrypt the data in US East one. It would send it to US east two encrypted in transit. And then finally, before it's written to disk in US East two, it would actually encrypt it with the chosen key here from KMS. So we're not going to do that for right now, but I want to showcase that configuration. Now. You can also change the destination storage class here. So for the fun of it, we'll go ahead and change it to standard. It's probably already standard, but we'll go ahead and choose it anyway. And then we have additional replication options down here at the bottom. Now I'm going to go ahead and choose RTC. We talked about RTC and how it's going to replicate almost all of our objects within 15 minutes. I'm just going to do that. So it's faster in the course in this demo, and then I'm going to leave everything else blank for now. So I'm going to go ahead and click on Save Here. And here's what I was talking about before. S3 has recognized that we have existing objects in our bucket. So it's asking us if we want to create a one time batch operation job in order to move all the existing data from our source bucket over to our target bucket. And I'm going to say, go ahead and do that. So what it's going to do is when I click on Submit, it's actually going to go into S3 batch operations. I don't know if you can tell on the background, but in the green in the top replication configure was successfully updated. All right. So it's kind of done the replication piece already. Now we're going to move over to S3 batch operations to move existing data. So I'm going to click on Submit here and you can see immediately we are in Create batch Operations job. So what we'll do here is we're going to run through the configuration. We're going to automatically run the job when it's ready. I don't really need a completion report for this demo, so I'm going to uncheck that. And again, we're going to choose from existing roles. I'm going to go ahead and have Iam create a new role to perform this job and I'm going to click Save here. So it'll take a minute and it's going to move us over to S3 batch operations and we'll be able to see this job enabled and starting to kick off. All right. So here is our new job at the top. You can see status here is new. You can see total objects is not available yet and it hasn't done anything. If we actually go into this job here, you can see the status down here on the left is preparing. So if I click on refresh, it's still preparing. It may take a few minutes. In my experience, it's probably taking about five minutes maybe to kick off here. But again, we can look down here. You can see the source bucket is our Amazon S3 deep dive and we are going to replicate data. All right, So let's click on refresh one more time just to make sure. So now it says it is ready, 0% complete. And you can see now time in active state. So it just started our job. So this actually went pretty quick when it started last time, the data actually showed up in the bucket way before this job ever completed before. So what we can do is go back to Amazon S3 into buckets here. We'll scroll down and find our Brian Carlson replicate to me. And we have no objects yet. All right. So we'll wait a few minutes for that S3 batch operations job to complete and then we'll refresh and see that all of the existing objects that live in our original bucket, which was Amazon S3 Deepdive now show up in this bucket due to that S3 batch operations job. All right. So you can see after a while, all of our objects have been copied over to our new bucket called Brian Carlson. Replicate to me. And these are all the objects that were copied over by our S3 batch operations job. Now, what we want to do is showcase that well, we have ongoing replication from our original bucket over to our new bucket. So I'm going to go back to buckets here and we're going to click on our Amazon S3 Deepdive bucket here. And what we're going to do is we're going to place some new items inside of this bucket and then we're going to make sure that those get automatically replicated over to our new bucket. So I have a list of just some random PDFs. They're actually all the same PDF. I just gave it different names and I'm going to copy and upload that into our original bucket here. So pull that over. We want to go ahead and upload these. Let's double check the storage class, which is standard. And what we're going to do is check the encryption. So what I want to do is not use KMS and I'm going to override that and just use SSE because we don't want to mess with all the permissions of KMS right now. And then I'm going to upload. So we're going to upload all of these. They're pretty small, so it shouldn't take but a second here and we're already done. So we close this and now we scroll down and we see all of our new PDFs right here. All right. Customer sales, January, February, all the way through August. Now, what we can do is we can go back to buckets here and we'll go into Brian Kraus and replicate to me and we'll scroll down and nothing's shown up yet. Usually takes a little bit. Now, if you remember when I set up my replication rule, I use RTC, which means that 99.99% of the objects should be moved over within 15 minutes. So again, we have 25 objects here and usually it's pretty quick, but we'll go ahead and keep on refreshing here. And what I can do is also pause the video. If it takes too long and we'll just validate that everything gets moved over from our original bucket over to our new bucket. And while we do that, I want to showcase one thing really quickly. If I go back to our Amazon S3 dive bucket and I select one of these PDFs down here at the bottom right, here's the top of it. If I scroll down under this management configurations, you can see replication status. So that means a rule has been applied to this new object and you can see that is actually pending. All right. So one thing you can see, if you have issues with replication, you may see some kind of message in here that says failed. Right. And that means that the bucket or the rule may not have permission in order to read or write data to the new bucket or read from the original bucket. Right. Remember when we created that replication rule, we selected Iam roles? Maybe the Iam role needs to be modified or in the case of using a KMS key, you may need to modify the KMS key policy to allow S3 or batch operations to use that key in order to decrypt the data and then move it over to the new bucket. All right, so you can see this pending right here. Let me refresh the screen just to make sure that it comes up. And you can see right here now, it says completed. All right. So if we go back to our bucket here. And we go to our replicate to me and look at that. Now we have 33 objects. If you scroll down and now we have all of our new PDFs right here. All right. So we have May, March, August, etcetera. So you can see that by dropping our new objects into our original bucket, our replication rule has now actually replicated all those objects from our original bucket over to our new bucket. So now our data now lives in both US East One and we have a copy of it in US East two. All right. So hopefully that was helpful for you to understand how to create an S3 replication rule. And then of course, we saw how S3 also notifies us that, hey, there are existing objects in this bucket. Do you want to go ahead and move those over using a batch operations job? And of course, we went ahead and did that, copied all the original objects. And of course, we just showcased that when we drop new objects into our original bucket, we also saw those objects now show up in our target bucket that we created, which was the Brian Carlson replicate to me Bucket. All right, So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 MFA Delete

The next topic here is MFA Delete. So let's talk about that. First, I want to introduce MFA, just in case you don't know what MFA is. MFA is multi-factor authentication and MFA really relies on three different keys. Something you know, something you have or something that you are. Now something you know is, you know, a password or a pin that you've memorized something you have maybe a token or a device with a code like your mobile phone, maybe a Google authenticator or something like that. Something that you are a fingerprint, a facial scan. Multifactor authentication usually requires at least two of these in order for you to authenticate. Using MFA will prevent somebody from learning your password and then gaining access to the system. They must also have a token. They must also have a device. They must also have a fingerprint in order to authenticate as you. So by using multi-factor authentication, even if your password is compromised, they would still need a token to access your account. Now MFA delete in Amazon S3 World helps us protect against accidental deletions by adding an additional layer of security to our S3 bucket. MFA will require your credentials like your AWS credentials and an MFA code in order to delete an object version or change the status of versioning on the bucket, like suspending versioning that we talked about. So how does MFA delete work? Well, it requires two forms of authentication in order to allow you to delete or change an object. Now it requires your security creds and that six digit code from an MFA device. So in the example here, I have a user on the left performed a delete object on a bucket that does not have MFA delete and well, the object can be deleted, no problem. In the event that we enable MFA delete and the user tries to delete an object but does not provide the MFA code. Well that delete is denied. They must provide that six digit code from the MFA device in order to delete the bucket. So of course if you have this enabled and you have access to the MFA code, whether that's a device or a token or something like that, and then you submit a delete object request and you provide the required credentials and the MFA, well, the objects can be deleted if you have access to the MFA token. So pretty easy there. Now to enable or disable MFA delete, you would use the same API to configure versioning because it's kind of locked with versioning. You must have versioning enabled in order to use MFA delete. Only the bucket owner or the root account can actually enable MFA delete on a bucket and MFA delete can only be configured on the AWS CLI or the API. You cannot configure this inside of the console. You cannot delete objects that have MFA delete enabled using the console. You can only delete objects using the CLI or the API if you have MFA delete enabled and keep in mind that you need the proper credentials in order to delete an object that has MFA delete configured. So you need those credentials and you need access to that token. So if you are in an organization, you may have a security token that's locked in a safe or somebody has access to it. You need to get access to that token in order to get the code, in order to properly delete objects that have MFA delete. That's it. On that one, just want to showcase what MFA delete is. Again, another way that we can protect our data by ensuring that no one can delete our objects unless they have proper security credentials and they have access to an MFA device like a security token that gives us access to that six digit code.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Object Lock

All right. So another option to protect our data is something called S3 Object lock. Now, this is a feature that allows us to store objects using a write once, read many model, and sometimes you see this written as worm. Now you can use worm protection for scenarios where it's imperative that data is not changed or deleted after it has been written. You can read it over and over again, but you want to make sure it's not changed or deleted. So whether your business has a requirement to satisfy things like compliance regulations and financial or health care sector, or you simply just want to capture like this golden copy of a business records for auditing and reconciliation, those kind of things. S3 Object lock is really going to be the right tool for you. Now, there's no additional charge for using this feature, so go on and add some retention dates to your objects in S3. By the way, you can only enable S3 object lock for new buckets if you do want to turn on S3 object lock for an existing bucket, you would have to contact AWS support. When you are creating your bucket, you have the option to turn on object lock. Otherwise, you would have to reach out directly to support to enable it on an existing bucket. Why would you want to use S3 object lock? Well, maybe we've got different requirements in our organization to store different types of data for a certain period of time. So in this example, I have three buckets here. Amazon, S3, Deepdive, one year, four year and seven year. And maybe our security team has dictated that our security and application logs must be held for one year. Obviously if there are security and application logs, we don't want people to change that and we need to be able to read that data in the event that we need to go through logs and maybe correlate logs and things like that. Great use case for using object lock. Maybe the next one is four year. Maybe you have legal holds, so you have data in your organization and you are legally bound to save this data in the event that you need it down the road. For some legal reasons, you can use something like object Lock to store this data. Again, four year here is just a suggestion and you can use object lock in order to store this data and ensure that no one can alter this data or delete it. And finally, maybe you have financial records that need to be held for seven years. Maybe you're a public company and the SEC requires that you maintain your financial records for up to seven years. Obviously, you don't want anybody to change those. You obviously don't want anybody to delete those because you can get fined. So again, you can use Object locked in S3 to upload all that data and ensure that data cannot be changed. So we have all of our data in our organization. We can go ahead and divvy this out. We say, Hey, all of our application logs are going to live in this bucket. All of our legal holds are going to live in this bucket. And finally, we have all of our financial records are going to live in this bucket. Now, remember, as soon as those objects are added to the bucket, we would configure the time frame on how long we want those objects to be locked. Now, keep in mind that it doesn't prevent our lawyers or whoever from getting the objects and reading the objects. It only prevents us from deleting and modifying those objects. There's two different retention modes for object lock. You should use governance mode if you want to protect objects from being deleted by most users during your predefined retention period. But at the same time, maybe you do want some users with special permissions to have the flexibility to alter the retention settings or delete some of the objects. In that case, you want governance. Now the other retention mode is compliance mode and you should use this mode. If you have the requirement to store compliant data, you should only use compliance mode if you never, ever want any user, including the root user in your AWS account, to be able to delete the objects during your predefined retention period. By the way, the only way to delete an object under compliance mode before its retention date expires is to delete the associated account. That's the only way you can actually delete that data if you're using compliance mode. Now, S3 Object lock does have added support for things like cross region replication. This means that in addition to locking your objects, you can actually configure. S3 bucket to enable automatic asynchronous copying of your locked objects and all the associated metadata to an S3 bucket in a different region. Maybe you have all that legal hold data, but you want to go ahead and replicate that to another region just to be sure. Right. So often, if your data is important enough to use a retention date, it's probably important enough to go ahead and replicate it to another region there so we can go ahead and migrate that data over. So that is S3 Object lock. Again, predefined retention dates. When you create your bucket, you say, I want to hold this data for 90 days, 100 days, two years, etcetera. Choose the type of retention mode that you want, governance or compliance. And again, you create a write once read only copy of your data stored in S3.

---

*Section 8 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
