<!-- Section 9 of 13 | Course: aws-ai-practitioner-certified -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 9 OF 13: Amazon SageMaker - Deep Dive
**Course:** `aws-ai-practitioner-certified`

---
### Lecture: Section Introduction

So this section is my best attempt to teach you about Amazon SageMaker. Amazon SageMaker would be the one place to do machine learning if you're a data scientist or a data engineer. It turns out that SageMaker is going to be a big focus for the AWS certified machine learning associate or specialty exam. Still, from a certified AI practitioner level, you need to learn about SageMaker and some of its capabilities, but only at a high level because things can get complicated very quickly. So I will do my best to teach you the different important features that can appear at the exam, and I will try to make sure that we stay on an exam level information for SageMaker. Therefore, it's going to be a little bit more difficult to do practice activities on SageMaker, so we will remain high level. Anyways, I hope you're excited and let's learn Amazon SageMaker together.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker AI - Overview

So, now, let's talk about Amazon SageMaker, which is one of the most important machine learning service on AWS. So, it's a fully managed service and it's for developers and data scientists, who want to build machine learning models and also deploy them. Because typically, to do all the processes in one place around machine learning is very difficult. And on top of it, when you start training your models, you need to have compute resources or servers and provisioning them is also difficult. So, SageMaker does it for you all in one place. For example, say, you want to build a model to predict your next exam score for your AWS exam. So, how does that work? Well, we're going to have historical data and we're going to transform it to extract the number of years of experience in IT, the number of years of experience with AWS, how long the student has spent on this course, as well as their passing score. And this passing score is the output. And we know this because this is historical data that we have just collected over time. And so, for example, say, "I would do a survey to my students, I would ask them all these questions, as well as what was their exam score?" So, they would say, "670, 890 and then, 934." And then, once I have all these datasets with as many rows as possible, then, I'm going to build my machine learning model directly on SageMaker. And it's going to help me train and tune my model. And then, therefore, when the model is built and you as a new student, who hasn't passed the exam yet, you say, "Hey, I have three years of experience in IT, one year of experience on AWS and have spent 10 hours on this course," then, the model will apply to the data and say, "Well, the prediction is that you will pass the exam with 906 score." So, all of these things can happen directly on SageMaker. So, to summarize, it is to collect and prepare data. It is to build and train machine learning models, as well as deploy the models and not only deploy them, but also, monitor the performance of the predictions in the models to go back to the first stage and improve the data collection. So, if you want to go a little bit deeper, there are some built-in algorithms on SageMaker. You don't need to know them, but I want to show you what SageMaker can do. So, we have supervised algorithm. So, you can do linear regressions and classifications. You can do classification, using what's called KNN algorithms. You also have unsupervised algorithms, such as PCA, Principle Component Analysis, to reduce the number of features in the datasets. K-means to find grouping in data, or anomaly detection to find datasets or data points that look different and this could be used for fraud, for example. You can also do machine learning on text such as NLP, so, natural language processing or summarization, as well as image processing, such as classification and detection. You do not need, again, to remember these things. But I wanna show you that SageMaker has a lot more built-in algorithms as well and that it's a one-stop place to do your machine learning. Next, something that's very cool about SageMaker, is called Automatic Model Tuning or AMT. The idea is that you have your model, but you wanna make sure that you try different parameter combinations to tune your model and to see if you can get better performance out of it. And while this could be manual, in SageMaker, it is automatic. So, we define the objective metric, what do we want to optimize for? And then, automatically, AMT is going to automatically choose the hyperparameter ranges, so, this is how your algorithm is going to function. It's going to figure out research strategy, so, how to navigate the hyperparameter ranges, also, how long to run to tune a job. And then, if a job is not tuning itself well, then, what is the early stop condition? Bottom line is we just say, "Hey, we want to optimize for this objective metric," and SageMaker does the rest. It's going to save you lots of time and money and also, it helps you not waste money on suboptimal configurations due to the early stop condition. So, once you have trained your model, you need to deploy it. And in SageMaker, it's super easy. You just deploy it with one click. And automatically, out of it, you get automatic scaling and you don't manage any servers as opposed to a solution where you would deploy your own models on your own servers. This is called a self-hosted solution. So, because we have a managed solution with SageMaker, it's a lot of reduced overhead. Now, how can we deploy a SageMaker model? We have real-time and this is one prediction at a time. So, we'll have a real-time endpoint and our application will send a payload and we configure the CPU or the GPU for our models to do the inference, so, to compute the outcome of the model. And we'll have auto-scaling and so, we'll get their answer right away. We also have serverless. So, this is a very similar architecture to what we had. But here in serverless, we only select how much memory we want for our models, depending on the models we have. Auto-scaling is done for us out of the box. We don't need to configure it. And with serverless, we can have periods where you don't have any traffic. So, the downside of it is that if you start having traffic and you haven't had traffic for a long time, it's something that happens is called a cold start, which is that the model has first to boot up and so, you get a little bit more latency on the first call to your serverless endpoint. So, real-time and serverless though, all serve the purpose of having the response being given to you right away. Just the real-time endpoint is a bit more configuration. The serverless endpoint is a bit less configuration, but potentially, more latency once you have a cold start. And then, we have asynchronous. So, if you have very, very large payloads of up to one gigabytes, then, it's going to be a long processing time. And so, therefore, we're going to put the payload into a staging Amazon S3 bucket. And then, our application is going to tell the asynchronous endpoint to put the job in a queue and to do its computation in its own time and to put the results in another Amazon S3 bucket. So, here, it's called near-real time latency requirements. That means that you don't get the answer right away, but you'll get it at some point. The request and the responses for the payload are going to be in Amazon S3. And then, you have batch. Batch is when you have a prediction for an entire dataset. So, you want multiple predictions. And again, it's a similar architecture. The request and the responses are in Amazon S3. So, our application is going to put the dataset in a staging bucket and tell the batch endpoint to put a job in a job queue and then, to put the results in a result Amazon S3 bucket. So, it is important for you to understand the different types of deployments one can do on SageMaker. So, we have real-time, serverless, asynchronous and batch transform. And I've compared them on four categories. So, in terms of latency, real-time inference and serverless inference are going to have low latency with the caveat that serverless inference may have what's called a cold start. That means that your infrastructure may start at the moment you do the request and therefore, will take a few more seconds to get your reply. But both these things are for real time and the payload is supposed to be quite small, up to six megabytes, one record. And the processing time is a maximum of 60 seconds. So, again, the use cases are for real-time inference of small predictions with the difference that serverless is when you want to have no infrastructure to manage and that's the big difference from an exam perspective. So, these limits may change, but you get the idea behind the inference types. Next, we have asynchronous inference. So, here, the keyword to look for at the exam, is near-real time. And here, again, we do one big prediction. But the prediction can be up to one gigabytes of input payload size, so, very, very big input payload. And the processing time is a maximum of one hour. So, the use case for asynchronous inference is large payloads and workload that require longer processing times, but remember, it's for only one record. And so, it's called near-real time. And finally, we have batch transform. So, here, we get high latency and we get to process multiple data points, it's called the dataset, at the same time. And so, because you have many predictions you want to do on many different data points at the same time, you can do concurrent processing. And that's why it's called the batches, because it's many records. So, now, the batch size can be 100 megabytes per mini-batch, but you can have many mini-batches. So, virtually, you can have very, very big batch transform invocations. And because it takes a while to compute all the predictions on all the points in your datasets, the latency is high. It could be from minutes to hours. But the max processing time remains one hour. So, hopefully, now, based on the keywords you're looking for at the exam, such as no infrastructure, real-time or near-real time, or the size of the payload and so on, you should be able to choose the right inference model. Finally, when you use the SageMaker service, you'll most certainly use SageMaker Studio. So, this is this interface, which allows you to do end-to-end machine learning development directly from one specific place. So, you have team collaboration, you can have different teammates in there. You can tune and debug machine learning models, you can deploy machine learning models, you can perform automated workflows and so on. So, this will be at the center of what we do in SageMaker. So, that's it, we've seen a very high overview of SageMaker. We know that we can train the model on SageMaker. We've seen we can automatically tune the model on SageMaker and that we can deploy the model on SageMaker in four different ways. So, that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Hands On

So, let's have a look at Amazon SageMaker. Now, if I type SageMaker, I have two options, this one and the SageMaker AI. So, this SageMaker right here is not the one we'll be using. This is one that is higher-level. The one that where we actually build machine learning models is called SageMaker AI. So, SageMaker AI is what we build, train, and deploy machine learning models at scale. So, we are new to it, so we need to set it up for a single user. And the setup, as it progresses, is going to set up a SageMaker domain and a Studio user profile. Okay, so now I have SageMaker Studio open. And as you can see, this is where in this new interface, you're going to be able to do all the things you need to do in SageMaker. So, everything I've been teaching you in this course is going to be around here. For example, you can access RStudio as a separate application, Canvas, MLFlow, Jupyter Lab. You can have a look at Models. So, here, within Models, you can have a look at some models that can be JumpStart base models. So, we've seen this in the course, so we can, for example, launch DeepSeek R1, or Meta Llama and so on, and then we can view the details or even customize it with a UI or with a code, but we have the base model to work from, but you have the list of all the models right here that are accessible as well from within SageMaker Studio. In terms of assets, you can have a look at your Datasets and you can upload them, or Evaluators to manage them. You can have a look at which instances can be used to run your machine learning models. You can have a look at your machine learning experiments. Again, you don't wanna be an expert here, I just wanna show you the options, but this is where MLFlow is going to be, and then you can have a look at all your jobs. So, you have the Inference optimization, the Training, the Model evaluation, and the Performance evaluation. You can have a look at your Pipelines. This is where you're going to have a visual editor to maintain your SageMaker Pipelines, and finally, how to deploy a SageMaker model. So, all these things we've talked about in the course are in one UI right here. And finally, if you want to have a look at Feature Store, this will be here as well. So, the bottom line is that you don't need to be an expert at SageMaker in this course, but you need to understand the differences between all the things that I've told you in this course and to know that it is accessible from the SageMaker AI UI. So, going back to it, now we have one domain. This domain is what allows us to access this UI right here, which is very handy. And then within it, for example, if you have a look at Canvas or RStudio or all these things, you can also click here, but it will redirect you to this very UI right here. All right, that's it. For more information on SageMaker, this is for other courses, but I hope you like this lecture, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Data Tools

So to get started with SageMaker, we need to prepare some data, for this, we can use SageMaker Data Wrangler. So this allows you to prepare tabular and image data for machine-learning purposes. In SageMaker Data Wrangler, you can do data preparation, transformation, and feature engineering. So this is extract of the interface of SageMaker Data Wrangler. And from this single interface, you can also do data selection, you can cleanse it, you can do data exploration, you can visualize it with some graphs, and process it. So it's very, very powerful as a data tool, to make sure that your data is ready for machine learning. On top of it, if you're a programmer that uses the SQL language, you have SQL Support. And if you want to analyze the quality of your data, you have a data quality tool, which will tell you, for example, if all your rows and your columns are in the right format, if you're missing some data, and so on. So anytime you need to transform data, think Data Wrangler. I just wanna show you different screenshots, so you can import data from different places, for example, from Amazon S3, you can preview data to see and extract and configure the types of column names as well as their types. You can visualize data, this is where you create graphs that allow you to understand what is happening within your data sets, and understand the type of data you're dealing with because that has a big impact on the machine learning model you will choose, you can transform data, so this is where you define the data transformation, the type of function you will apply on your data, the things you wanna drop, and add, and so on. And then you can do a quick model, a quick analysis to understand if your machine model is going to perform or not. Finally, your data flow can be exported so that it can be recreated in the pipeline and in an automated fashion. So Data Wrangler is part of SageMaker Studio, and is a very good way to transform and deal with your data before going into machine learning models. So when you use Data Wrangler or any other tool, you will want to create machine learning features, and these features are going to be what is gonna be given as an input to your machine learning models. And they will be used during training and used for inference. So remember, we had this dataset in which we had the birth date, but the birth date was not good enough for us, so after doing feature engineering, we've transformed it into an age, a numerical value that was more usable for us. Other things we can do, for example, will be to extract the song rating, the listening duration, or listener demographics for a music data set. And it's super important to have very high-quality features across your data sets in your company to use. So not just one, but across all your data sets to reuse them. So that brings us to the SageMaker Feature Store. So the idea is that these features exist in many of data sets, and you're going to ingest them from a variety of sources. And in the Feature Store, you're going to get an overview of all the features that exist in your company and you can have a description and so on, which is very handy. So you are able to also define the transformation of data into feature directly from within the Feature Store, or you can publish it directly from Data Wrangler that we've seen into the SageMaker Feature Store. And these features are discoverable within SageMaker Studio, which allows for better collaboration and better discovery of data within your company. So that's it for this lecture on preparing data. We have seen Data Wrangler and we have seen Feature Store. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Models and Humans

So now let's talk about SageMaker Clarify. So with SageMaker Clarify, we're going to evaluate foundation models. So how is a model A performing versus a model B? And SageMaker Clarify is going to give you some insights. So for example, here, this model A on brand voice is performing at 25% versus model B at 75% and on relevance at 64% versus 93% for model B. So how does that work? Well, we're going to give some tasks and then Clarify is going to evaluate the models on this task. So here we can evaluate using Clarify some human factors such as the friendliness of a model or the humor of a model. And to evaluate the model, we need humans. So we're going to leverage either an AWS-managed team or we can bring our own employee. On top of it, to evaluate these models, you can use the built-in data sets, or we can bring your own data sets and your own questions. You also have built-in metrics and algorithms you can choose from and this is part of SageMaker Studio. So here, remember we involve humans into comparing foundation models on specific tasks. The other very important feature of SageMaker Clarify is called model explainability. So here you want to understand how your model is working and why it's making the predictions it is making. So here we have a set of tools that explains how the models will make predictions and we can understand these characteristics as a whole before making deployments. So this is very helpful to debug the predictions after it's deployed as well. And this is good to increase the trust and understanding of the model. So here for example, we can ask why is the model predicting a negative outcome for a loan rejection for a given applicant? And we can say, well, the main feature or the three main reasons why the applicant was rejected was for these three features. So this is what you see on the top right. The predictive column right now is very, very dependent on maturity month, a 14 loan amount, and so on. So this is how we can use in Clarify, explain our model, and we can understand, for example, if case of there is an incorrect prediction, why is the model making an incorrect prediction? So this is very helpful. There's another side of SageMaker Clarify to detect a bias, so a human bias. So we want to understand where the biases are in our data sets, in our model and detect them and we can measure it using statistical metrics. So we specify the input features we want to look and bias will be automatically detected. So here, for example, we can see in our dataset that there's a class imbalance, meaning that there is a group that is substantially more represented than a disadvantaged group. And so this is a huge bias, or it could be wrong proportions, or it could be, for example, like men and women type of spread in your model, maybe there's more women than men or vice versa. Again, the bias can be automatically detected by SageMaker Clarify, which is very handy. Next, let's talk about SageMaker Ground Truth. So this is based on RLHF. So if you see RLHF at the exam, this is for reinforcement learning from human feedback, and it's very possible that SageMaker Ground Truth will be the good candidates. So here we use it for model review, customization and evaluation, and to align a model to human preferences. Here basically, we want to have human feedback in the reward function for reinforcement learning. So that means that we want human feedback for your machine learning so that we can create and evaluate models from a human perspective or create data or annotate data again, from a human perspective, because sometimes the automated processes do not necessarily align well to human preferences, or we need to fine tune the models with specific human preferences. For example, a model may have learned to be joyful and happy and funny, but if we're doing AI that's supposed to be very business-oriented, we need to provide one last layer from a human perspective, giving our preference to the model as being more business-oriented and this is where the humans are involved. So for example, let's take this picture. We have humans and we want them to create labels such as we have a dog, a ship, and a cat. And so therefore we can include reviewers, and these reviewers can be either your employees or third party employees or workers from Amazon Mechanical Turk. One last term you may see at the exam is SageMaker Ground Truth Plus, which is the capability and feature within SageMaker Ground Truth to use this workforce to do the task of data labeling. So that's it for SageMaker Ground Truth and SageMaker Clarify. I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Governance

So once your model is deployed and you want to survey to users, it's important to have good machine learning governance. For this, we have several tools available to us on SageMaker. The first one is SageMaker Model Cards. This is a way for you to gather the essential model information in one place. For example, you may want to document what are the intended uses, what is the risk rating of your model, and how was your model trained with all the details. You also have Model Dashboard. This is where you can see all your models in SageMaker. So it's a centralized repository for all your machine learning models. And you're going to get information and insights again for all these models on the risk rating, model quality, data quality and so on. It's a very good dashboard. And finally, we have SageMaker Role Manager. This is where we define permissions and roles for personas. For example, say you have data scientists in your company, or MLOps engineers or data engineers, whatever you want, you're going to define roles and permissions within SageMaker, thanks to SageMaker Role Manager, and this is how you have proper governance in SageMaker. So let's do a little deep dive on Model Dashboard. So it looks like this, and this is a centralized portal where you can view, search and explore all of your models. For example, you can track which models are being deployed and used actually for inference. So which one are actually serving your users. This can be accessed from the SageMaker console directly. And on top of it, because you have some level of monitoring on top of it, you can find models that violate thresholds you set for data quality, model quality, bias or expandability, and allowing you to take very quick actions on these models. Which brings me into model monitor. So how do we get these alerts? Well, we have model monitor on a per model level. So once we have deployed a model in production, we can set up a model monitor to have a look at the quality of it, either continuously, so all the time or on schedule once every whatever, day, week and so on. And in case there is deviation in the model quality, then we're going to get an alert. And if you get that alert, it's up to us to iterate on it. So we're going to either fix the data or retrain the model to recalibrate it and make sure the quality is up to our standard. For example, say you've created a loan model, but six months down the road, it starts giving load to people who don't have the correct credit score. There's a drift in your model. Then this is something that could be set up on model monitor and could be cut ahead of time. Next, we have the SageMaker Model Registry. So it looks like this. And as the name indicates, it's a way to have a centralized repository that will allow you to track, manage and version machine learning models. That means that you're going to have all of them in the catalog and you can change the versions. You can look at the associated metadata with a model. And more importantly, the model registry is very good because if you are submitting a model onto the model registry, there is a way for you to create an approval status. That means that you can have your stewardships or your governance and have someone actually approve a model before it's registered into Model Registry. And also it's going to be very helpful when you start automating model deployments or when you want to share models in your company. On top of it, we also have SageMaker Pipelines. So it looks like this. It's a way for you to create a workflow that will automate the process of building, training and deploying a machine learning model, which is going to be very helpful when you want to do something called MLOps as we'll see later on. So it's the same idea as having a continuous integration and continuous delivery, CI/CD service for machine learning, which if you're not familiar with IT, it means nothing to you, but if you are familiar a little bit with development and delivery, then they should make a lot of sense. So the idea is that you continuously and automatically are going to deploy a model in production. So of course when you start creating a pipeline, because everything is automated, you can easily build, train, test, and deploy hundreds of model automatically. And why do we do this? Well, we get to iterate faster, reduce errors. There is no manual steps and have repeatable mechanisms. So the pipeline has several components and steps and steps are performing a specific task. So we have different step tasks such as processing and as the name indicates is for data processing, such as feature engineering. Training is for training the model. Tuning is for hyper parameter tuning or optimization. AutoML is to automatically train a model. Model is to create or register a SageMaker model. It could be in the Model Registry, of course. ClarifyCheck is to perform stuff with SageMaker Clarify. So you can look for drift checks against the baseline such as data bias, model bias or model explainability. And QualityCheck is to check the data quality against the baseline. So data quality or model quality. And here's the fullest of steps. But from an exam perspective, I guess the model, the step types and names are pretty obvious, but it's good for you to know the order in which you can do them and what they mean as well. So usually processing, training, then tuning, AutoML, model, ClarifyCheck, and QualityCheck. So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Consoles

So there are other ways you can use SageMaker and get started quickly. So there is something called SageMaker JumpStart, and it looks like this. It's a machine learning hub to find pre-trained foundation models, computer vision models or natural language processing models directly to be launched on SageMaker. So the collection is much larger than what you would find on Amazon Bedrock. We have a large collection of models from Hugging Face, Databricks, Meta, Stability AI, and so on. The models that you access through SageMaker JumpStart can be fully customized for your data and your use case. And then they're deployed directly on SageMaker. So you still have full control of all deployment options of a specific model. And also if you wanted to just get started with a simple solution, for example, you have a use case of demand forecasting, credit rate prediction, fraud detection, or computer vision or whatever, then JumpStart also offers you pre-built ML solutions that are just a little bit higher level than the models themselves. So to summarize, we have two options with SageMaker JumpStart, the Machine Learning Hub and the Machine Learning Solutions. On JumpStart again, we browse and we look the models we want, then we experiment. We can customize the models with some of our data to fine tune it or we can train from scratch, and then we deploy the model directly. For SageMaker JumpStart, we can directly access a few pre-built solutions for common business use cases. Then we just select and customize them, and then we deploy them. Now if you are not a developer, and you don't wanna write code, but you still wanna build machine learning models, then you can do so using SageMaker Canvas. So it's a visual interface that requires no coding in which you're going to say, for example, hey, from my data set, I'm trying to predict a column named Median House value. And then SageMaker Canvas is going to walk you through the process of building a machine learning model directly to predict that column. And the idea is that it has a pre-packaged models directly you can use from Bedrock or JumpStart if you wanted to, or you can use your own custom models. And they're powered by SageMaker Autopilot that is using behind the scenes, something called Auto ML. And all of this is part of SageMaker Studio. And if you were to do any kind of data transformation behind the scenes, this would leverage the Data Wrangler tool that we've seen before. So anytime you think a no-code interface for SageMaker, think SageMaker Canvas. SageMaker Canvas also has ready-to-use models for you. So you can have a look at the Canvas interface where you can find the type of use cases you need. For example, sentiment analysis is going to be powered by Amazon Comprehend or Object Detection in images is going to be powered by Rekognition. So it's cool because we have direct integration between SageMaker Canvas and Rekognition, Comprehend and Textract, which makes it very easy to build a full machine learning pipeline without writing code while leveraging some various AWS AI services. Finally, there's an open source tool called MLFlow. And MLFlow allows you to manage the entire machine learning lifecycle for your machine learning teams. So it's a open source tool. It doesn't look like SageMaker Studio, but it's part of SageMaker Studio if you want it to. And the way it's integrated with SageMaker is that you can launch from SageMaker what's called an MLFlow Tracking Server, which is a server that runs the MLFlow software where you can track runs and do experiments, and you can launch it very easily. The idea is that SageMaker is making it super easy for you to use open source tools that are deeply integrated with own service. So this is the beauty of it, but I don't wanna go too much into MLFlow because this is a separate service from AWS. You just need to remember that Amazon SageMaker does offer the option for you to launch MLFlow on it. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Summary

So we've learned a lot about SageMaker, so I wanted to give you a summary about everything we've learned. From an exam perspective, I think you should just remember what the service does and the use case, and you should be good to go. So SageMaker is your end-to-end machine learning service. And as part of it, we have SageMaker Automatic Model Tuning to tune the hyper parameters of your model. We have SageMaker deployment and inference options, such as real-time, serverless, batch, or asynchronous. We have SageMaker Studio, which is a unified interface for SageMaker, where you can do your end-to-end machine learning processes. We have SageMaker Data Wrangler to explore and prepare datasets and create features, and then SageMaker Feature Store to actually store the features metadata in a central place, easily accessible from within your company. We have a SageMaker Clarify used to compare models, explain the model's outputs in terms of which features were the most impactful for the output, and to detect bias in your datasets, super important. Then we have SageMaker Ground Truth. This is where you do reinforcement learning human feedback, where the humans are going to be used for model grading and data labeling. We have also seen the governance aspects, such as SageMaker Model Cards to create machine learning model documentation. We have seen SageMaker Model Dashboard to view all your models in one place, SageMaker Model Monitor to do monitoring and alerts for your model. We have the Model Registry, which is a centralized repository to manage all your machine learning model versions. We have SageMaker Pipelines, which is a way to do continuous integration and continuous delivery for your machine learning pipelines. Role Manager to perform access control. JumpStart is a way for you to have a model hub or find prebuilt machine learning solutions and deploy them very quickly. SageMaker Canvas is a no-code interface for SageMaker in which you're going to be allowing yourself to create ML pipelines without coding. And MLFlow on SageMaker is for you to use MLFlow tracking servers on AWS. So that's it for this lecture on SageMaker. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: Amazon SageMaker - Extra Features

So here is a very short lecture around extra features of SageMaker that I did not know where to put, and they will appear maybe at the exam so this is why I'm adding stuff over time here. This is very short. So first we have the Network Isolation mode. The idea is that you want to make sure that your SageMaker job containers do not have any outbound internet access. The reason you wanna do this is to make sure that you have maximum security and that your data used during your training jobs for your models does not leak outside to an attacker on the internet. And so therefore you may want to run it in network escalation mode. If you do so, then your containers cannot access anything outside of just the data they already have to train. So that means that they cannot even access Amazon S3 or access anything in your VPC or anything on the internet. It's a really network isolated job without any internet access. There's also algorithm called the DeepAR forecasting algorithm on SageMaker and what you should know for the exam, it sounds very simple and stupid, but here it is. It's used to forecast time series data, and it's all you need to know if it appears at the exam. So if you see the DeepAR forecasting algorithm, it's used to forecast time series data and to do so is going to leverage an RNN, so a Recurrent Neural Network. And that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.
---

*Section 9 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*