<!-- Section 12 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 12 OF 13: Machine Learning Best Practices
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  Machine Learning Best Practices

Just one last section of stuff to learn here. The exam guide says you don't need to know how to assemble services into larger systems, or apply best practices to ML system design, but I'm not sure I totally believe them. Part of Amazon's own learning paths include the best practices dictated by the AWS Well Architected Machine Learning lens, so I'm going to summarize them for you in this section on machine learning best practices. Now, even if you might not be tested on it, I think it's still a fitting end to the course. Seeing how all these technologies we covered fit together, and how to use them to responsibly build real world scenarios. Let's get to it.

---

### Lecture: Designing ML Systems with AWS  Responsible AI

One of the areas covered by the exam is machine learning system architecture, and specifically the best practices at Amazon has defined for designing your machine learning systems. So I didn't make this up. This is straight from Amazon, so pay attention. One thing to consider when designing a system is responsible AI, and these are the core dimensions. Amazon defines for the responsible development of AI applications and you know good on them for thinking about this. You know there's a lot of people using AI, perhaps irresponsibly. So here are some things to think about to make sure that you're using this technology for the power of good. You want to consider the fairness of the application that you're developing. You know, is it going to be biased or not? In some unintentional way? It's explainability can be important for responsible AI. Can you explain why it made its output? Why did it say something you know, can you go back and figure out why it said something wrong and fix that if it's not explainable, you can't. Privacy and security. Are you being careful not to let it be trained on private, personally identifiable information or sensitive information is your AI system potentially a conduit for leaking that information out to others unintentionally? You want to make sure it doesn't even get in there, and you have guardrails in place to make sure it's master removed if it does slip through. Safety, controllability and veracity and robustness. Um, safety is kind of a broad term, right? You know, it just means, well, do people feel safe when they're using this system? Is it going to explode in unintentional ways? Kind of a broad, uh, meta concern there. Controllability. Do you have any control over the output of this thing? Again, that ties back to explainability in terms of being able to understand what's going on. You can't really control it if you don't understand it. But do you have knobs and dials at your disposal to make sure you can control the behavior of this system if you do need to tune it or change it later on. Veracity and robustness, of course. Does it tell the truth? You know, generative AI is prone to hallucinations, they call it these days. And, well, you want to be sure you can measure that and you have a handle on just how truthful your system is and whether that's within your acceptable limits for your application. Governance. Um, how do I know what this thing is doing? How do I keep tabs on it? How do I communicate what it's doing to others? How do I make sure that I'm in compliance with any relevant regulations? Different countries have different laws about AI, and you want to make sure you're in compliance with all of them. Transparency sounds related to explainability, but really it's more about just being transparent about what your system does. So are you publishing the limitations of your model, the capabilities of your model, the shortcomings that it may have? You know, you want to be transparent about what your model can and cannot do. There are some tools available to enforce these within AWS, so this is tying it back to AWS and some more technical considerations. Amazon Bedrock, which is the bedrock of Amazon's generative AI capabilities, has model evaluation tools built into it. So using bedrock, if you were to develop a LLM agent or an image generation model or anything else on top of the suite of foundation models that are offered by Amazon Bedrock, they have tools for evaluating the accuracy of that, or for throwing a set of test prompts at it and evaluating if their responses match the ideal responses or not. So they do have mechanisms for evaluating even non-deterministic LLM models. SageMaker clarify is also a tool in your arsenal for responsible AI. SageMaker clarify can automatically detect bias in your data sets that are being used to train it and also in the output. So we can say, okay, for this feature, is there some imbalance in that data that we need to be aware of and potentially address and fix? You also have tools within SageMaker to fix those biases if they do exist, by rebalancing the data that you have or maybe even introducing new data. It also has model evaluation capabilities. So it has the ability to evaluate your model not just as a one off, but also continuously as it's being run. And feed that information back into SageMaker to maybe to tune your model continuously. Explainability. It also has the ability to look at what happens if you remove a given feature and what impact that has on the output. So it can say, okay, the output is actually being driven primarily by these features in your training data. So you can say, you know, if I if I'm feeding it information about, I don't know, age and um, what else, you know, income, where you live, things like that. And you're trying to create a model that can predict something like whether this person should be approved for a loan. You can go back and use SageMaker. Clarify Clarifies explainability features to determine which of those features is most contributing to that final decision, and that can also help you with your feature selection, your, um, your feature engineering later on SageMaker model monitor is another tool at your disposal that allows you to automatically get alerts for inaccurate responses so you can keep an eye on your model once it's been deployed, and get an alarm if it's doing naughty things. Amazon augmented AI is also a tool that can be used for responsible AI that allows you to insert humans in the loop. So if you want to have human beings that are double checking these results before they go out, or maybe even involving them in the training process, things like reinforcement learning from human feedback is a popular technique for sort of training your model on which of two responses is better, and fine tuning your model in that way. So oftentimes there's a lot more human involvement in training these models than you might think. There's not as much A and AI as you might think. However, you know, I should point out that this too can be irresponsible. You know, keep in mind that if you are leveraging a team of people in a developing country, um, well, maybe that's not responsible. You might be exploiting them, right? Amazon augmented AI, however, allows you to bring your own team if you want to. So you have complete control over who's doing that work. Or you can use their own AWS managed teams as well. And there are some general tools for SageMaker for ML governance. SageMaker ML governance is not the name of a service, it's just a heading for this set of features here. One thing is SageMaker role manager. So that allows you to define roles for groups of people that are using SageMaker and define their permissions for what they can and cannot do. There's also model cards where you can define high level information about a model that you've developed using SageMaker, and publish that that gets back to transparency, right. So a screenshot of that is over here on the right, where you can start off by just documenting what the intended use of this model is, what its risks are, what the risks might be, you know, explain that. Just general information about what the limitations and risks of this model might be. And again, just publishing that in a way that's easily consumable. They also offer a model dashboard that gives you quick access to all of the models you've been using within SageMaker, and you can dig into those further from there.

---

### Lecture: ML Design Principles and Lifecycle

Let's cover the high level machine learning design principles at AWS defines. And what we're going to do is go through every phase of the machine learning life cycle and see how these principles apply to that, and how that translates to best practices for each stage in your design. One is to assign ownership. You know, you want to make sure things don't go, um, neglected for a long time. It's very easy for things to go out of date or change or drift over time. So you want to make sure somebody owns these systems and they're keeping an eye on it and making sure they're working as intended. Provide protection. Make sure you have security controls so you know who's messing with your model and what kind of data is going in and coming out of it. Enable resiliency. These big machine learning models have a lot of moving parts, right? There's a lot of hardware involved and a lot of software involved in training and serving them. Want to make sure that you have fault tolerance in place so that if one of those servers goes down, you're not having a bad night and make sure it's recoverable. So if you do have some sort of a failure, you can pick up where you left off. That's especially important in training because if you have a huge training job going on and it fails two thirds of the way through, You don't want to have to start all over from the beginning because that can get really, really expensive. Speaking of that, enable reusability. Like I said, training these models can be very time consuming and very, very expensive. So you want to be able to reuse those train models whenever you can. Make sure you can reuse what you've done instead of reinventing the wheel every time at great expense. Enable reproducibility. So as your models evolve over time and they're trained with new data, or they're trained or they're using better models, their output is going to change in subtle ways, right. And if you want to be able to reproduce what you had at a given point in time, you need some form of version control for your models and the data it was trained on. Optimize your resources. So again, these things can get expensive. You want to make sure you're making efficient use of the resources that you have. You're choosing the most efficient hardware you can for the application you have at hand. And you're also, um, choosing the most efficient models that you can for the problem that you have. You know, not everything requires a gigantic model. Some things can get by with a small language model instead of a large language model. So think about that. And that ties into the principle of reducing cost. And this is a topic that's explicitly called out for this exam, making sure you understand techniques for managing cost. Um, these things can get very expensive very quickly. These giant servers with giant GPUs are not cheap. And in order to encourage adoption of these larger technologies, it's important to reduce the cost of using them. You also want to enable automation. So training these things is complicated and you don't want to be spending your day, you know managing that by hand. So in addition to continuous integration and continuous deployment for the software at play here, you also want to be thinking about continuous training KT as well, so that as new data is received, that's automatically being fed back into the training cycle and making your model improve over time. It's important, of course, to monitor that as well, that training data might introduce some sort of drift in your model that might be undesirable, or introduce bias that you don't want. So it's not enough just to continuously train your model. You also need to monitor it to make sure that that training is not having unintended effects. And that kind of ties in, again, to enabling continuous improvement. So you want to make sure that you're monitoring and analyzing the output of your model over time automatically. And you're keeping an eye on that sort of model drift and seeing if unintentional negative changes are happening over time. There's lots of anecdotal, uh, stories out there of people saying, hey, it's these models have evolved. They've actually gotten worse in some ways. And if that's true, you want to know about it before everybody else does and finally minimize their environmental impact. These models are extremely energy hungry. Right. So we're talking massive amounts of very, very energy hungry servers that are powering generative AI. And people are starting to worry about the environmental impact of all that. You know, the amount of energy in a data center is comparable to that of a city, and that adds up. So you want to think about the sustainability of the stuff that you're building. You know, don't just blindly spin up a bunch of expensive servers in a data center just because you can't see them doesn't mean that they're not having some undesired impact on the world. Use managed services when you can to make sure that you're not wasting resources, and you're only employing these services when they're actually needed. And make sure you make efficient hardware and software choices. So always use the most efficient hardware you can, the most energy efficient hardware you can, and the most efficient software you can as well. And I would say even take a step back further and ask yourself, do I need to be using generative AI at all in the first place for this problem? Is there some simpler approach that would actually solve what I'm trying to accomplish in a better way, and in a way that's much more energy efficient and more sustainable. Anyway, these are the principles that we're going to review as we go through every single one of these stages of the machine learning life cycle. And here they are just as sort of an overview. We start off by defining the business goal for what you're trying to do. Very important to work backwards from some customer facing thing that you're trying to build. Right. And what the impact of that will be. So don't just work forward from generative AI and say, hey, we have this cool tool. What can I use it for? You want to identify the business goal that you're trying to solve, and develop a system that makes that possible. Once you've defined that business goal, you can go on to frame that as a machine learning problem and ask yourself, well, how can machine learning make this goal a reality? Maybe it can. Maybe there's some better way of doing it right. But if so, think about how you're going to approach this from a machine learning problem standpoint. Once you've defined your general approach, it's time to start collecting the data you need and identifying what that data is. That data will, of course, need to be processed in some manner to extract the data that you care about and get it into the format that your model requires. Once you have your data, you can start developing the model, and this can be an iterative process. You can see we have an arrow going back to data processing there. So as you develop that model you might find, hey, this data actually needs to be tweaked or I need more data or less data or more balanced data. Maybe there's some bias I need to address. Right. So there could be some back and forth between model development and data processing before you converge on a model that you're happy with, that you're ready to deploy. And that's the next step. Deployment. How do I actually get this model out there in the real world? A lot of people talk about the model development part, but they don't talk about how to use it in production. So SageMaker and bedrock offer tools for serving these at the inference level, and actually developing a service endpoint that can be used for actually using these models that you've developed in a runtime setting within real applications. But you're not done yet. You need to monitor what that application is doing and what the endpoints for your AI system are sending to it, right? So you need to monitor not just that it's continuously up and running, but also the quality of the results. You know, are we seeing model drift over time. And if so, maybe we need to go back to the model development and tweak things. Right. That monitoring step might say, hey, the quality of our results is actually getting worse instead of better. Over time. We might need to tweak the model to address that. And that in turn might involve going back and tweaking the data, maybe to address some sort of bias creep that's come in. And then we start all over again. You know, we go on to the next business goal and start the cycle anew.

---

### Lecture: ML Business Goal Identification

The first stage of that life cycle is the easiest one to talk about. Identify the business goal, and there are some basic principles that we want to talk about here that Amazon recommends. First of all, develop the right skills with accountability and empowerment. So make sure you know what you're talking about when it comes to generative AI. Maybe you should take this course, for example, before you start designing systems for generative AI, and make sure the people designing this are accountable for what they're doing and empowered to do the right thing. You want to discuss and agree on the level of model explainability, and this is a nuanced discussion, really, because there's a trade off between explainability and the power of the model you're using. The more complicated models are harder to explain what they're doing inside, but they tend to produce better results at the end of the day. So there is a trade off you need to be willing to make there between explainability, what's actually going on inside that model and how intelligent that model seems. You know, the more complicated it center it's become, the harder it is to explain what's going on inside that model. So you need to make a trade off there A conscious trade off SageMaker clarify again is a tool you can use to help with explainability, though it can at least tell you what features are driving the output of your system the most. So it will run these experiments it's used in, together with something called SageMaker experiments to run experiments where we remove one feature at a time and use that data to determine which features are most important to this model. And that is one dimension of explainability. You also want to monitor model compliance to business requirements, so you want to make sure that you're monitoring this thing over time, measuring if it's drifting over time in undesirable ways. And how are you going to address that. And you want to make sure that what you're monitoring ties back to your business requirements. So is this thing doing what we wanted it to do at a business level? You know, you want to make sure you're not just monitoring if it's up and running and, you know, having good accuracy or whatnot you want to be monitoring. Is this thing providing value to my business over time? Also, before you start you're going to think about the data that you need for this system, the software you need for this system, and the privacy and license concerns that might surround that. So make sure that whatever data and software you're using a you have permission to use it and you've paid for it. And also that you can use it ethically, you know, are you going to be giving out private information? Are you going to be using copyrighted information in ways that are not permissible? You know, think about that upfront instead of later on. Determine your key performance indicators, your KPIs, you know, standard business stuff there. But you know, you want to make sure you understand how you're going to measure the success of this system as a whole, you know, not just in terms of technical metrics, but in terms of business metrics, and define what the return on investment on this will be. How expensive is it going to be to build and operate this system over time and train this system? It might be a lot of money. Do you really expect to get that a return on that investment? Is it going to provide so much value to justify that expense or not? And not only that, what's the opportunity cost? What are you not doing? Instead of generative AI or machine learning you know, what else could you be doing that might be providing more value with the resources that you have. Generally speaking, you want to opt for managed services. I know this is kind of a hot topic in some organizations. Some people don't like magic managed services because they have vendor lock in associated with them. But but if your goal is to reduce the total cost of ownership, the TCO managed services can be a way to do that. Sometimes. Not always. You know, I've seen some managed services that are actually more expensive than unmanaged in some situations, but you need to think about it. At least. You know if you don't want to be paying for computing capacity that you're not using. Managed services are usually a good way to do that and to find the overall environmental impact or benefit. Hopefully there's a benefit, but you need to think about what's the power consumption of all these servers going to be, what's the resource consumption? What's how much water am I using to keep them cool? A lot of this stuff is invisible to you if it's running in a data center somewhere halfway across the country, but the impact is there nonetheless. So do the right thing and make sure that you're not making the planet worse as a result of your project.

---

### Lecture: Framing the ML Problem

On to the next step in our machine learning system life cycle. That's the machine learning problem framing. How am I going to frame this business goal as a machine learning system? So to do that, we need to understand the machine learning lifecycle itself. And there's a lot going on in this diagram. So let's kind of walk through it here. When you're building a machine learning system, the first thing you need to do is collect the data that you need to train it with. You know, for generative AI, large language models, that might be a bunch of text, maybe for images, it's a bunch of images, whatever it might be, you need to figure out where you're going to get that data from and get it in one place so it can be processed and used for training. Usually that data cannot be used in a raw fashion, so you need to pre-process that data somehow, prepare it, and also do feature engineering, you know, select which of that, what pieces of that data are the most valuable for your model, and maybe reformat that into a way that needs to be used for training. You know, maybe you need to one hot encode some of these features or normalize those features, whatever it might be, before they're suitable for feeding to your model directly. There's a lot of arrows going on here, a lot of things going in different directions. Right. So as we're preparing that data, we might also store off information about those features in a feature store. So there's something called the SageMaker feature store that we'll talk about. And there can be an online feature store and also an offline feature store that are used in different settings. We'll talk about that more later on. But as we're preparing the data, those feature stores might be getting populated as well. And later on that might be fed into both the training, tuning and evaluation step and also to the deployment step if it needs to go back and reference some of that original data to augment its results. Right. All right. So once we have the data prepared we're going to train our model using it. We're going to tune that model. You know make sure that we're going back and fine tuning it and optimizing it and evaluating it over time. Right. So the model itself kind of lives in this little box. But there's a lot going on in that box. Right. That box is ingesting not only are prepared and engineered data, also it might be pulling data from our feature store either online or offline. And there's also some feedback loops that we'll get back to later on. But oh, the other thing too is that this might dump out into a model registry. So that little green arrow path there. Once we have a model, we might want to keep track of that model, store it off somewhere and make sure that we have some sort of a versioning in place so we can go back and test that version of the model over time. That model registry will just document what versions of the model we've had, what they did, and kind of document the evolution of that model and make it reproducible. Once we have a model that we're happy with, we can deploy it out to the outside world. And again, that might draw from the model registry to pull in the model that we want to deploy. It might pull in information from our feature store and also the data itself, if it wants to augment the information coming out of that model with some of the original data. And once that model is out there in production, that's what we call real time inference. Some application is hitting that in real time to infer what the response should be for a given prompt or input. Right. So the thing that customers care about, the application is going to go through some sort of a monitor to make sure it's doing what we want it to do, and that the quality of the results are where we want it to be And that monitor might be hooked up to some alarm manager to make sure that your alarm or something goes horribly wrong, or something's drifting out of bounds. And there might also be a scheduler in place to run that monitor regularly over time. Right. Also, there's a performance feedback loop here and an active learning feedback loop. So as we get results from that model monitor, maybe we can use that to tune our results over time. So if it says hey, I'm seeing some drift here, maybe we can automatically adjust the bias in the data to compensate for that. And also as new data is being generated by the application, maybe we want to feed that back into the training, right. So as users use this system, they might be generating more data that we can use to learn from. And we want to feed that into our data that's used to train the model as well. So not too hard to wrap your head around, right? There's a lot of boxes, lots of arrows here, but it's not too hard to wrap your head around. That's the machine learning life cycle. So now that we understand what we're trying to do, how do we apply our best practices to that process? Well, number one, establish machine learning roles and responsibilities. And the part you want to pay attention to in these forthcoming slides is what SageMaker services and features can I apply to make these recommendations reality? And in this case, SageMaker Role Manager is a tool you will use to establish the machine learning roles and responsibilities. What can the users of your system do when it comes to modeling? You know, training your model, tuning that model, deploying that model. That's where you define who can do what within your team. The SageMaker role manager. You also want to prepare a machine learning profile template, and that's just a matter of documenting the resources required for building your model. You want to establish model improvement strategies and some tools you can use for improving your model within AWS. Our SageMaker experiments, where you can basically run tests of different models and changes to those models and measure the impact it has on the output. They also have automatic hyperparameter optimization. So you can say, okay, these are the knobs and dials I have for my model. How can I automatically experiment with different settings of those parameters and converge on the optimal settings for them? That could be an expensive and time consuming process, but with hyperparameter optimization and SageMaker it can be automated and optimized. Also AutoML. That's just the SageMaker system that can automatically try to choose the best model for what you're trying to achieve, and automatically tune it for your end result. We'll get into more detail about all these systems, by the way. We want to establish a lineage tracker system, and that's what SageMaker lineage tracking is. It's just keeping track of what the stages in your machine learning pipeline are. And that ties into SageMaker pipelines, which defines those processes that make up your larger system. Kind of like the diagram that we looked at earlier. SageMaker studio, which gives you a IDE, if you will, for experimenting with those and defining what they are. The SageMaker feature store that keeps track of what the features are and how they've evolved over time, that are being used to train your system, and also the SageMaker model registry, which provides a repository for your trained models. You want to establish feedback loops across the machine learning lifecycle phases. So how do I make sure that my model is getting better over time and learning from its own performance? SageMaker Model Monitor is the standard tool for that. It can keep an eye on the output of your model and see if things are drifting, or introducing biases you might not want. CloudWatch can be used at an operational level to make sure that your systems are up and running, and operating within the latencies and availability you require. Also, Amazon augmented AI can be used to insert humans in the loop and introduce continuous human evaluation of the output. Sometimes algorithms and metrics can't capture the quality of a generative AI system, and you need humans to be evaluating that quality to see. Well, are these good results from a human standpoint? And A-to-i Amazon augmented AI is a tool that allows you to do that and insert those humans into your workflow. You also want to review the fairness and explainability of your system of your models over time. Again, SageMaker clarify being an important tool for detecting bias in your model and going off and doing something about it. You also want to design data encryption and obfuscation. So if you have any sort of sensitive data or personal information in your system at all, you want to make sure you're identifying that and keeping it secure. And AWS glue Databrew is a tool that allows you to manipulate that data and do some data pre-processing, including PII detection and masking. You can use APIs to abstract change from model consuming applications, so you don't want your applications to be tied at the hip to some specific version of your model. You want to define an API so that they can continue to run the way that they were. But under the hood, there's a change to the model that they don't even need to know about from the application standpoint. Right. So using SageMaker together with API gateway is a way of establishing an API to your model in SageMaker that can be consumed by your applications, and by having that more stable API, it means you don't have to change your application as often. You want to adopt a machine learning microservice strategy. So, you know, you might need a little services that support your application and provide an augment data to the models output. You can do that using AWS Lambda and Fargate for deployment of images that might support your larger application. Use purpose built AI and ML services and resources, so don't reinvent the wheel. Use Amazon SageMaker. Use SageMaker Jumpstart to get a jump start on using specific models and solving specific problems. There are also a suite of solutions in the AWS marketplace you might be able to draw from. So. So it's not always necessary to start from scratch and reinvent the wheel. There are tools available that you can use at least as a starting point. Define your relevant evaluation metrics. How am I going to measure the success of this system over time? And how am I going to monitor that over time and at a higher level. Is machine learning even the right solution for what I'm trying to do? You know, again, you don't want to be working forwards from machine learning or generative AI. You want to be working backwards from the value you're providing to your customers and generative AI. Machine learning. It's not always the right solution. And even if it is, there might be a much more simple machine learning algorithm that would meet your goals in a more simple and less expensive fashion. Now, I want to point out that one of the stated goals of this exam is to test if you know how to control costs for machine learning applications. So that is one such thing as we go through each one of these phases of the life cycle that you see at the bottom of the screen here. The last ones are generally going to be the ones that are aimed at sustainability and cost reduction. And those are especially important to pay attention to. Also do a trade off analysis on custom versus pre-trained models. So training new models is expensive right? So again this gets down to cost control and sustainability. If there's a pre-trained model out there that you can reuse Use, then reuse it. Don't reinvent the wheel. You know, if you just need to do image recognition of common objects, there are pre-trained models out there that will do it for you. And maybe you can just fine tune that build on top of it as opposed to starting from scratch. Also consider AI services and pre-trained models kind of what we just said, but just in a different word. This is just under a different heading here under sustainability instead of cost reduction. But again, training models is a very intensive thing in terms of resources and energy. If you can reuse an existing system out there, uh, do so. And if you do need to do some heavy duty computing, at least select sustainable regions. There are some regions that are more sustainable than others where they have greener energy sources than others. So. So, for example, the West Coast of the United States has more hydroelectric power than the East Coast does. So you do need to think about where you're running these services and where their energy comes from. When you're considering the sustainability and the environmental impact of what you're developing.

---

### Lecture: Data Processing

Let's discuss best practices surrounding data processing. And there's three stages to data processing to talk about. There's the data collection. And then data pre-processing and feature engineering both fall under data preparation. So we need to collect our data, get it somewhere. And then we need to prepare that data such that it can be actually used to train our model under data collection. That's going to involve steps that include labeling our data. Potentially we need to make sure that if we're trying to train a system on how to classify something or say something's true or false or whatever, someone needs to go back and label that data and actually give that something that the system can learn from and say, okay, given this value, these are the labels that are correct for those values, right? Sometimes that involves human beings, sometimes the data is already there for you. But you need to think about do I need labels for this data? And if so, how do I get them? Once I have that data, how do I ingest it into my system? How do I get it where it needs to be? Do I need to stream that in? Do I need to have some sort of a batch process that ingests that data into S3 or wherever I'm going to put it You got to think about how it gets there. Aggregation of data, you know, how do I actually combine this data together. If it's coming from multiple places, do I want it to stay in multiple files, or do I want to aggregate that and sort of add up the results to save space? Um, something to think about for data preparation. You need to clean that data. You know, there might be missing data. You have to deal with there might be outliers that you want to discard. That's a big part of the problem partitioning the data. If there's a large amount of it, you need to think about how I'm going to access that data efficiently. I might need to partition it by the date it was received or some other feature, some other dimension to make sure I can efficiently access that data from my application. How do I think about the scale of that data as I'm processing it? Do I need some sort of a distributed system like Apache Spark or something to process that data? It needs to be scalable. How do I unbias and balance my data? How do I know that bias exists in the first place? You know, there could be hidden biases in the data that I'm using to train my model, and if so, my model will also be biased. You know, if there's an overrepresentation of one class of people or information in there in my features, I want to correct for that, I want to make sure that I'm balancing that so that the data I'm using to train my model is evenly distributed across the categories that I care about. Do I need to augment my data? You know, do I need to actually import new data? Maybe I don't have enough data to properly unbias my information without reducing the amount of data that I have to an unacceptable level. In that case, I might need to augment my data with additional data from additional data sources to properly unbias and balance it. And maybe, you know, there's just more information. I need a period. You know, it might not be related to bias or balance. It might just be that I need to ingest additional information to make this data more useful to my model. Once I have that data pre-processed, I then need to think about feature engineering. Which of those features are most important to my model? You know, maybe I don't even need all that information, or I need to make decisions about which features are most important. I might need to transform those features into a format that my model needs. It might need to be normalized and might need to be one hot encoded. Whatever it might be. There's probably some transformation that needs to happen before I can dump that information into my model. I might need to create new features or extract new features from existing features. So sometimes you can transform the features you have in novel ways to create new features that might be even more useful to your model in the long run. You know, sometimes a given number is more useful if it's squared or square rooted or whatever, right? So things like that. Or maybe you need to extract information from an address field in some manner, like to get the zip code out, things like that. Right. That's feature engineering. And there's best practices surrounding all of this. So number one is to profile your data to improve quality. And again the key here is attaching AWS services to these goals. So if your goal is to profile your data to improve quality well you'd be turning to Amazon's data engineering and analysis tools, which include SageMaker, Data Wrangler, glue, Athena, redshift and QuickSight are some of the tools you might use, and I'm not going to get into any detail about what these services do, because we have an entire lectures in sections about what those services do, but we're just trying to attach names to goals here. You also need to create tracking and version control mechanisms for your data. A SageMaker model registry is one tool for at least tracking the models that are consuming that data. If you have notebooks, you can store those in git to have some sort of version control around them. Those notebooks might be responsible for processing your data, and SageMaker experiments can also keep track of different types of data that's going into your models, and how that's changing over time. From a security standpoint, always ensure least privilege access. That means that you're not going to start saying everybody has permission to do everything, and I'm just going to remove the things they don't need. Instead, you approach it from the standpoint of nobody has permission to do anything, and I'm only going to give you the permissions that you absolutely need to do what you need to do to develop this model. You want to make sure your environment for processing this data and modeling using that data is secure. Use the analysis environments that are in the cloud where they can be more securely controlled. SageMaker, EMR, and Athena. Most of these services have built in encryption over the wire and whatnot, so you kind of have to try to not make it secure in most cases. And the tools at your disposal for securing that data are of course IAM, KMS Secrets Manager and also the use of VPCs and Privatelink. That's an important one because in these machine learning systems, we often have a lot of services working with each other to build a larger model or train a larger model. Doing all of that within a VPC and using privatelink is a way of securing the transfer of that data as it goes back and forth. You want to protect sensitive data privacy. Amazon Macie being a tool for doing that automatically enforce data lineage. And of course SageMaker ML Lineage tracker would be the tool for keeping track of what that data is doing over time. Only keep the relevant data. So if you don't need data, get rid of it. Especially if it's sensitive, personally identifiable information. And in addition to the usual suspects, tools like comprehend and transcribe can be used to identify that as that data is being extracted from its source audio or wherever it might be coming from. Athena can also be a tool for querying data and removing columns that you don't need. Once you've identified that also make sure you're using a data catalog that's keeping track of what the schema is for your potentially unstructured data. That's what AWS glue is for. Use a data pipeline to structure and define how your data is being processed. That's what SageMaker pipelines is for. Automate the managing of your data changes. That's just more of a general machine learning operations topic. Use a modern data architecture. The best practices defined by AWS specifically, say a data lake. There. I think that's coming under question, though. Um, maybe giant piles of unstructured data isn't always the right answer for every application. But the key there is to make sure that you're thinking about what the right data architecture is for the data that you have. Use managed data labeling. So if you do need to use humans to label your data, take advantage of tools like Amazon Groundtruth to automate that process and make it managed and structured and something you can keep track of. Use a data wrangler for interactive analysis. And well, that's what SageMaker Data Wrangler is for, just, well, wrangling your data, you know, taking your data, transforming it in a graphical manner. Again, there's a whole lecture about that. Use managed data processing capabilities. That's what SageMaker is for. At a higher level and enable feature reusability. That's what the Feature store is all about. The SageMaker feature store, making sure you're keeping track of what those features are and making them accessible, and publishing them to other models and other applications as the need may be. On the sustainability front, make sure you're minimizing any idle resources that might be involved in your data processing. So use managed services whenever you can. Implement data lifecycle policies align with sustainability goals, so make sure you're throwing out data that you don't need over time. If you have no need for hanging on to data that's five years old, don't pay for storing it. You know that comes with the electrical and equipment costs that you might not even need at all. And same thing. Just another way of saying it. Adopt sustainable storage options. Make sure that you're using the most energy efficient, the cheapest storage technologies you can. You know, if you can dump something into Glacier, then do so. If you don't need it at all, then get rid of it. So those are some best practices for data processing in the machine learning lifecycle. And then we'll move on to the next stage here the actual model.

---

### Lecture: Model Development

Next, let's address the best practices for model development. That's the train, tune and evaluate stage of our life cycle that we talked about earlier. And there's a lot of substeps to training and tuning. Right. So this diagram breaks some of that down. You're going to start with the features that you identified from the feature engineering and data pre-processing that you did earlier. And then you'll have to build some code to actually ingest those features and train your model using them. First, though, you need to select your algorithm that you're going to be using to build your model with, and that's another stage in the process here. Once you've selected your algorithm, you can then start training your model using that algorithm and using the data that you pre-processed. There are some tools available from SageMaker. There's a data parallel processing library and a model parallel processing library that can help to accelerate that training. For very large data sets. Data parallel is what it sounds like. It's kind of like Apache Spark, where it can split up the data itself and train your model in parallel, using different chunks of that data at once Model. Parallel refers to having a model that's so huge that it can't fit on one GPU. So, you know, if you have a large language model, it might have so many parameters, so many weights and biases that one instance is not enough, one GPU is not enough. So we need a way of parallelizing the model itself as well. And SageMaker provides libraries for that. You need to debug and profile the model that you've trained. You know what went wrong. How do I correct that issue that happened during training? How do I validate the metrics that came out of it? How do I tune the hyperparameters and arrive at the optimal settings for that model that produced the best results along the way? You might use visualization tools like QuickSight or whatnot to figure out what's going on visually as you're iterating through that model and making it better. Once you've done all that, you'll have a training container that contains your training code that's being used to throw more data at it and continually train that model over time. And ultimately, that model will produce artifacts such as well, predictions, right, of some sort. So what are some best practices along the way? One is automate operations through MLOps and continuous integration. Continuous deployment. Some tools that might come in handy for that are CloudFormation, CDK, SageMaker pipelines, and Amazon step functions. Again, we'll talk about all that in much more depth. Establish reliable packaging patterns to access approved public libraries. So Elastic Container Registry or Codeartifact might be ways of managing those packages. And who can get at what through what image. A secured governed ML environment is critical. And in particular you need to secure inter-node cluster communications. So a lot of data is going to be flying around. As you're training a machine learning system. Some tools at your disposal are the internode encryption option for SageMaker, as well as elastic MapReduce encryption in transit feature. So you can turn those on to make sure your data is safe as it's getting thrown around. Protect against data poisoning threats. So if you have a system that's continually learning continuous training, right, based on new data that's coming in from the application, there could be bad actors out there trying to inject data into your system from those applications and polluting your results. So first of all, you need a way to identify if that's happening. SageMaker clarify can be a tool for identifying bias that might be drifting into your model as a result of data poisoning. And if you are under attack, you want the ability to quickly roll back, right? So that's where SageMaker model registry and Feature store might come in. If you need to roll back to a previous model or a previous set of feature data that was not subject to that data poisoning attack, you want to enable continuous integration, deployment and training automation with traceability. MLOps frameworks come in handy for that, and SageMaker pipelines in particular is a tool for automating your larger pipeline around training your models. Also, ensure feature consistency across training and inference. That's what SageMaker feature stores for you want to make sure that you both have the same picture of what features you're using that the model was trained with, and that's being used at runtime. SageMaker experiments and SageMaker Model Monitor are tools you can use to ensure model validation with relevant data. Make sure that you're testing that model and that it's producing the results you expect. Again, we've said this several times, but well, there's a reason for that. SageMaker clarify can be used to detect data bias and mitigate against that happening. Optimize training and inference instance types. So make sure you're not using bigger instances than you need. Or you know the opposite can be true, too. Maybe you're moving to a parallel approach prematurely. There's always an overhead associated with parallel processing, and it's usually better to max out the largest instance type you can for training before trying to parallelize with multiple instances. Always be testing out alternatives for performance improvement. So SageMaker experiments is a way to try out new approaches and see if something might be more efficient or produce better results. Always establish a model performance evaluation pipeline. And again, SageMaker pipelines and model registry are tools for that. Establish feature statistics. What are the things that you care about with your features? What are you monitoring? Well, that's what model monitors for Data Wrangler can help to understand that. SageMaker clarify again for bias detection and SageMaker experiments for testing out the impact that a feature might have on your end results. And you need to think about trade offs with your feature data. So accuracy versus complexity, you know, often the more accurate models are, the more complex ones, the more expensive ones, the more environmentally unsustainable ones, if you will. You need to define what level of accuracy you really need, and only throw the level of complexity needed to achieve that goal at the problem. Bias versus fairness. Bias versus variance. Uh, describing that in the context of a trade off seems a little bit weird. I'm not sure when bias would be something you'd want, but just be aware that detecting that bias is important because it might affect the fairness of your system. You know, you might be developing a system that approves loans for people, and if it's not fair because your data is biased, that's an issue. Bias versus variance as well. Precision versus recall classic trade off in the machine learning world. And you can measure all this with again SageMaker experiments and SageMaker clarify when it comes to bias. Detect performance issues when using transfer learning. So if you're taking an existing model and fine tuning it or building on top of it, SageMaker debugger can be an important tool for doing so. Select the optimal computing instance size. Kind of another way of saying something we said on a previous slide. Just make sure you're not using more computing power than you need for the problem at hand. Don't let that computing power go to waste. Use managed build environments. Select local training for small scale experiments. So, you know, if you're just experimenting and playing around, maybe you can use a small data set that's just running on your local PC instead of spinning up a big, expensive instance in the cloud that will save a lot of money and resources. Select an optimal ML framework so there are choices out there. PyTorch versus TensorFlow. Well, inherently they're both pretty close in terms of efficiency, but there might be more tools available to you in one framework than another. So for example, a lot of the parallel processing libraries offered by AWS only work for PyTorch right now, so that might be a better choice if you're really training a very large model. And scikit learn, you know, doesn't use deep learning at all in most cases. So maybe a simpler classical machine learning algorithm will fit the bill, maybe even better. And that'll be even more optimal, more cheap, more environmentally sustainable. Use automated machine learning when you can. SageMaker autopilot. Instead of flailing around and trying different things yourself, autopilot will probably make better use of the resources you have to converge at the optimal solution. Use managed training capabilities such as SageMaker Training Compiler and managed spot instances. Just ways to make sure that you're automatically optimizing the use of your resources and not using resources you don't need. Training compiler I should point out, even though it's in the official Amazon training for this exam, it is being kind of spun down. They are no longer maintaining training compiler. That was a system that would automatically optimize your training code to be up to 50% faster using supported frameworks and supported hardware, but for whatever reason, they stopped maintaining that use. Distributed training. I think part of the reason they did stop supporting training compiler is because it's incompatible with SageMaker distributed training libraries. So these libraries that allow you to distribute that training across multiple instances do not work with training compiler But that seems to be the direction they're pushing people in, using more hardware instead of less. Mm. I wonder if there might be a financial incentive to them there. Oh, did I say it? Sorry. Stop resources when not in use. Well, okay. On the flip side of that, they do have available options to make sure you're not wasting resources. Make sure you have billing alarms in place. It is all too easy to leave one of these machine learning instances up and running that you're not actually using, and that can get very, very, very expensive very, very, very quickly. A billing alarm will at least alert you if that's happening. So make sure you have those set up. SageMaker life cycle configuration can automate the entire pipeline for you, and make sure resources are spun up and spun down as needed automatically. And if you're using SageMaker studio, make sure you have the auto shutdown option checked off. Otherwise, you'll do what I did once. Leave something running in a SageMaker studio notebook and forget about it. And then you have hundreds of dollars in bills that you didn't even know about until that billing alarm went off, start training with small data sets again. Don't waste a bunch of computing resources that you don't need while you're just experimenting and playing around. Often a small data set is enough to get a feel as to whether the algorithm you're developing, the model you're developing is feasible or not, and then you can start throwing more and more data at it to see how it improves or not. Use warm start in checkpointing. Hyperparameter tuning of this really correlates to the warm pools feature in SageMaker, where you can set up a pool of resources that sticks around for a little while after you're done training, so that if you need to do multiple training runs, you can reuse that hardware instead of reprovisioning it every time. Checkpointing is just a way of saving off checkpoints of your training as it goes, so that if something goes wrong, you know if something fails along the way, you can pick up from where you last left off instead of restarting the entire training job. And for large training jobs, that can mean substantial savings. Use SageMaker automatic model tuning to do your hyperparameter optimization. Again, it's going to be able to do a better job than you can at converging on the right hyperparameter values than if you were to do it by hand. Make sure again, you have AWS Budgets and Cost Explorer set up to manage your costs. Again, very important in the exam to understand how to manage the costs associated with machine learning, especially generative AI. AWS Budgets and Cost Explorer being your tools for managing and understanding what those costs are. Enable data and compute proximity. Speed of light isn't quite what you think it is. You know, if you have your data on one side of the planet and your model's training based on that data on the other side of the planet, well, that's going to be a lot of wasted time just wasting waiting for data to get from point A to point B. Make sure your data and your compute are close together if you can. That will make your system more efficient. Select optimal algorithms. Again, deep learning, generative AI, large language models. They're not the answer to everything. Often a much simpler algorithm will fit the bill and even produce better results. Enable debugging and logging using SageMaker debugger and CloudWatch as your tools there. Define sustainable performance criteria. So again you can throw infinite amounts of money at these problems, right? But you need to know how good is good enough. How much accuracy is required for your application. Don't throw a more complex model at the problem than you need to, because it can get very expensive very quickly. Use early stopping while training. So once your results are good enough, stop training. You're done. Don't waste further resources. Select energy efficient algorithms. Do you need that large language model? Do you need that giant deep learning model? Maybe something simpler will do. You know, I would put XGBoost or even regression up against anything else for a lot of these problems. They would do just as well. Archive or delete unnecessary training artifacts. So, uh, don't keep your, uh, processed training data around forever. If you don't need it, it can pile up very quickly and get very expensive. Use SageMaker experiments to manage that and organize that data and use efficient model tuning methods. Again, if you use SageMaker to automate your hyperparameter tuning, it will usually do the right thing. But you want to use Bayesian or hyper band tuning techniques, not just a random search where you're just, you know, throwing darts at the wall and hoping you get the best results for your parameter choices, or grid search, which is just a brute force approach, right? You know, you want to make sure that you're learning from the previous results of your tuning and converging on the right values. Limit your concurrent training jobs. Again, doing anything in parallel has some inherent overhead, and you want to avoid that as much as you can and only tune the most important hyperparameters. So every model has about a billion hyperparameters. Okay, I'm exaggerating a little a lot, but the more hyperparameters you try to tune at once, the number of combinations explodes, so the fewer hyperparameters you focus on, the better. In terms of efficiency and sustainability.

---

### Lecture: Deployment

Moving on to the deployment phase. And this diagram kind of summarizes what that might look like. So you'll have a container containing your inference code. That's the code that actually provides results out of your trained model. And that might draw from artifacts from your trained model, from the model registry, and also feature information from the feature store that ensures that those features are in sync with the features that were used to train your model. Your endpoint in production will use that inference code to actually produce a final results. So, you know, given these features, what's my inference? What are my predictions that I'm giving back to my system? Or maybe given this prompt, what is my response from my large language model? Right. That's my endpoint. And your application will in turn communicate with that endpoint to do something with those results, something that has business value. Right. So some best practices around deployment make sure you have a deployment environment metrics in place. So CloudWatch, EventBridge and SNS are all tools you might use just to make sure that your endpoint is up and running and that you're alerted when it is not. Protect against adversarial and malicious activities. We talked about data poisoning earlier. If someone's actively trying to infect your model with bad data. SageMaker Model Monitor might be a way to detect that drift that's happening over time that you want to address. Automate endpoint changes through a pipeline such as SageMaker pipelines. Of course, that can automate the whole process of deploying these things. Use an appropriate deployment and testing strategy. So SageMaker has some pretty cool features for testing different versions of a model and seeing what performs the best in production for your application. SageMaker blue green deployments and a b testing, linear deployments and Canary deployments are all ways to deploy new models in a controlled manner and measure their impact. Before you go whole hog with them and put them out there for everybody. Again, these are all things we talk about in more detail elsewhere in the course if alleyway cloud versus edge options. So sometimes you want to put stuff out on the edge within the device itself that wants to use these inferences. That's possible too. That's what SageMaker neo is. And IoT Greengrass ways of getting that inference out there in the actual device instead of actually going across the cloud. Sometimes that's necessary for latency reasons, or just because you're using your model someplace that doesn't have reliable internet connectivity. Choose an optimal deployment option in the cloud so real time, serverless, asynchronous or batch do whatever is appropriate. Not everything needs to be real time. Not everything needs to be serverless. Not everything needs to be asynchronous. So if you just need batch data once a day, then keep it simple, right? Use appropriate deployment options. Multi-model Multi-container SageMaker edge. These are all technologies you might consider for scaling that deployment out more effectively. Explore cost effective hardware options. Um, again, for inference, you might want to use the Inf1 instance type inferentia. A SageMaker neo might be a way of doing this on the edge efficiently, and elastic inference can be a way to sort of boost the efficiency of your inference nodes by attacking that on top of it. Rightsize the model hosting instance fleet. Don't use more hardware than you need. SageMaker inference recommender can be used to sort of give you some guidance on what that fleet should look like. And there are also auto scaling features you can use to automatically grow and shrink your fleet of instance servers as needed in response to the traffic that you're seeing. Align SLAs with sustainability goals. So again there's some trade offs here. Latency versus serverless. You know what's really important to you. Uh batch asynchronous deployments. These all have sustainability impacts that come with them. And you need to balance your actual requirements against the technology that you've chosen. Use efficient silicon. So again, use hardware that's been designed to be efficient at the task at hand. If you're using CPU inference, Graviton3 might be a good choice. If you're doing deep learning inference inferentia inf two instance types might be a good efficient choice. If you're doing trainium, the Trn1 instance type Trainium might be a good choice for that. These are all special purpose designed chips for these different applications, and they'll make the best use of the energy that you have for accomplishing those tasks. Optimized models for inference. So use tools like Neo Tree Lite hugging Face Infinity to make sure your models are optimized for the inference time and giving your application what it needs. Deploy multiple models behind a single endpoint. SageMaker inference pipelines can be used to accomplish that, and we'll talk about that more later, too.

---

### Lecture: Monitoring

Finally, we're at the monitoring stage of the life cycle here, and you might think this might be a quick section, but actually Amazon has quite a few best practices surrounding monitoring. There's more to it than you might think. The basic tools you're going to use for model observability and tracking are going to be SageMaker Model Monitor, of course CloudWatch to monitor the underlying systems. SageMaker clarify model cards. Well, that's more about observability. It's just kind of like a governance thing, really. And SageMaker lineage tracking to make sure you know what's going where. Synchronize your architecture and configuration and check for skew across environments. So that's where cloud formation and model monitor might come into play. Making sure that you know what your architecture is in cloud formation and monitoring it for skew using model monitor. You want to make sure that you have secure inference endpoints to make sure that only people intended to consume this model can do so. You can use tools like logging Amazon GuardDuty and Amazon Macie to monitor your human interactions with the data for anomalous activity. So if people are injecting personally identifiable information or something, or doing things that they shouldn't be doing. These are all tools that you can use to detect that activity. Allow automatic scaling of the model endpoint. So yeah, you uh, monitoring becomes less important when problems are automatically dealt with. Right. So automatic scaling elastic inference. These are ways to make sure that you don't get woken up in the middle of the night because of some surge of traffic to your model. Ensure a recoverable endpoint with managed version control. Some tools you might use for that are ECR, CloudFormation, Codecommit and SageMaker. Pipelines and projects. Just basic version control the ability to roll back to an earlier version. Evaluate model explainability. Again, clarify can be used to at least tell you what features made the most impact, and tell you if that's changing over time. Evaluate data drift. Again, clarify can tell you if a bias is creeping into your model over time and using clarify, model, monitor and OpenSearch. Perhaps to visualize that information can help you to monitor, detect and handle model performance degradation over time. You want to have an automated retraining framework, so you don't want to have to think about it too much. If you need to retrain your model with new data, because that's going to happen all the time, right? SageMaker pipelines, Amazon Step functions, or is it AWS step functions? It's hard to keep track of what's AWS and Amazon, right? I'm not sure there's a rule for that. Jenkins also a tool for that review. Updated data and features for retraining SageMaker Data Wrangler can help you to explore the data coming in to train your model over time, and understand if that's changing in its nature. Over time, you can also introduce humans to keep an eye on your system. Amazon augmented AI can be used to take your own fleet of people or an Amazon. Amazon manage team and use that to just ask them, you know, how good are the results of this model? Are they getting better or worse over time? And measure that using actual human judgment? And as these machine learning systems and AI systems become more and more human like in their responses, maybe the best way to evaluate how good they are is using humans. Monitor usage and cost by your machine learning activities. Tagging and budgets are going to be useful tools for understanding where your money is going. Keeping an eye on that. Monitor your return on investment. So at a business standpoint, maybe QuickSight can be used to make sure that the end result of this model is justifying its existence. Monitor endpoint usage and right size the instance fleet CloudWatch SageMaker autoscaling are tools for making sure you have just the right number of servers for what you're trying to do. And also a little tip this might show up. Using Amazon FSX for lustre instead of S3 is often a good choice if you're doing large scale training. When we get into Amazon's systems that are designed for training models with trillions of parameters, part of their solution for that is using Amazon FSX instead of S3. It's just got more bandwidth. Measure your material efficiency. That's an important metric that people don't pay attention to enough I think. Um, material efficiency is the cost of your provisioned resources over the revenue produced by the business outcomes or more generally, provisioned resources over business outcomes. Are you getting back a good bang for the buck? Here is the cost of running this service more than the business value you're getting. Unfortunately, for a lot of people, the answer is yes. It's costing me more than I'm making and they don't even know it because they're not measuring material efficiency. Very important to pay attention to because these systems, again, are not cheap, and the value they're providing to your business might be hard to capture. Training is expensive, so only retrain when necessary. Define what accuracy is acceptable in your system and only retrain if you have to. If you find that your model has drifted to the point where it's no longer meeting your business goals, then retrain. Don't retrain just for the fun of it. You can use SageMaker Model Monitor, SageMaker pipelines, and AWS Step Functions Data science SDK as tools for automating that training in response and understanding when that training needs to happen

---

### Lecture: AWS Well-Architected Machine Learning Lens

So that's a lot of best practices. I didn't make them up. Like I said, this all comes from the AWS Well-Architected machine learning lens that they offer in the AWS Well-Architected tool. These are all in a custom lens that's available there. A lens in the AWS Well-Architected tool is really just a JSON file that leads you through an interview about how you are using machine learning, and guides you in how you might do it better based on those best practices that we just spent a lot of time going through. And if you want more detail on that, go visit the associated whitepaper at this link here. And it will go into even more depth than I went through right now. It organizes all those best practices even more and gives you more depth and more information about what they all mean individually. And I do think this is probably important for the exam. If you go through these best practices and work backwards from them, working backwards being a very important thing in Amazon, right? It kind of points you toward the services and technologies you need to know to achieve those best practices. So we name drop a lot of services along the way in this section. And that's not an accident. Those are the services and features that you need to focus on for building a well-architected machine learning system. So consider this sort of the fundamental jumping off point of the technologies you need to understand for the Certified Machine Learning Engineer exam.
---

*Section 12 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*