<!-- Section 1 of 13 | Course: aws-ai-practitioner-certified -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 1 OF 13: Artificial Intelligence & Course Introduction
**Course:** `aws-ai-practitioner-certified`

---
### Lecture: What to expect from this course

Hi, this is Stephane Maarek, and welcome to this course. I am super excited that you have decided to learn how to pass the AWS certified AI Practitioner exam with me. You will see that artificial intelligence on AWS is a fascinating topic and is going to really open up your career and your possibilities. So let's get started, and I will see you in the next lecture. Happy learning.

---

### Lecture: Important  Course Structure

Hello, and welcome to the AWS Certified AI Practitioner course. My name is Stephane Maarek, and I will be your instructor for this course. So I just need about five minutes of attention just to make sure we are on the same page, and then we will get started with this course. So we are going to prepare for a certification from AWS called the AWS Certified AI Practitioner. And the exam code is a AIF-C01. So this is an AI-focused certification. It's less focused on the AWS Cloud itself. So if you're looking for a course on the AWS Cloud itself, this is not the one. You may want to do Certified Cloud Practitioner or Certified Solutions Architect Associate. In this course, having basic IT knowledge is going to be very helpful. We are going to cover over 20 AWS AI services. And if you're a beginner on AWS and IT, you are welcome, but take your time, it's not a race, and you may have to look up a few things. I'll do my best to explain everything, but sometimes that basic, basic knowledge I don't offer. So this course is about learning by doing. That means that you're going to have both theory lectures and hands-on. And I try to have as many diagrams as possible and visuals to help you learn. So I want to make sure that you exactly understand what this course is and isn't. So this is not a course on how to use ChatGPT. This is not a course on how to use other AI tools, such as how to create images or how to generate music. And this is not a course on all the AI tools that exist out there. This is also not a course on how to use the AWS Cloud properly. For this, I really invite you to look at the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner course or the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate course. So what this course is though is that it's intended for IT professionals who want to learn about AI and to do a deep dive on all the AI services that are offered by AWS. So the goal of this course is really to help you pass what I call a technical certification that is administered by AWS. So hopefully we are on the same page and you are in the right place. If you feel that this is not the course you were looking for, no worries, just ask for a refund on the Udemy user interface and you'll be good to go. So about me, well, I'm Stephane, and I have over 11 AWS certifications. I've worked with AWS for many, many years. I've built websites, apps, streaming platforms, and I've been teaching AWS for now over seven or eight years. So that includes certifications or specified services, such as CloudFormation, Lambda and EC2. I've taught millions of students and almost got a million reviews. So you should be in good hands. You can connect with me on LinkedIn where you can follow me, on Instagram as well, Medium, Twitter and GitHub. So you are getting an AWS Certification and there are different levels to it, so we are on the foundational level, and so we have the Cloud Practitioner Foundational and we have the AI Practitioner Foundational level. This is what we're doing right now. You also have Associate level, they are more advanced type of certifications. Then you have Professional, they're even more advanced. And Specialty, where you specialize in a specific area. Right now we are at the Foundational level, which is the start, and you get a really good overview about the AWS Cloud, as well as the AI services on AWS.

---

### Lecture: Important Message  Udemy

Welcome to Udemy. I just wanna make sure that you are ready to use the tools correctly to maximize learning potential. So in this course, I will be speaking at my normal speed, but if you think I am too slow, you can speed me up up to 2X. Oppositely, if you think I speak too fast, you can decrease my speed up to 0.5X. Also, I've made sure that this course has professional subtitles that you can enable on the bottom right using the CC icon. Finally, you can also use transcripts to read alongside the video if that helps you maximize your learning. At some point during the course, you Udemy will ask you for some feedback. If you are not ready to give a rating yet, click on Ask Me Later. Else, you can select a star rating for whatever you want and then click on the star when you're done. Here you can leave me a small message telling me what you like about this course and what you want me to improve. When you're done, click on Save and Continue and you can go ahead with this course. I wanna say, your ratings are super important for me and for new students, so please make sure you leave one when your ready, okay? That's all, I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: What is Artificial Intelligence (AI) 

So artificial intelligence is going to be the main topic of this course, of course, but I want to give you a short and very, very high level introduction to AI to know what you're getting into. This may be obvious for you, this may be less obvious for some, so don't worry. I just wanna put everyone on the same level as we go along in this course. So what is artificial intelligence? Well, it is the field of computer science dedicated to solving problems that we commonly associate with human intelligence. So what can it be? For example, it could be image creation, where the AI is going to generate an image that you want based on requirements. It could be image recognition. So for example, your car is going to have a look at the stop signs on the street and know when to stop. It could be speech to text. For example, right now I'm speaking and I know that my words are being transcribed into captions by an AI. There's also for learning. So AI has the ability to adapt to the problems you have and therefore giving you a very specialized learning experience. But for now, right now you're learning from me and I promise you, I am a human. So how does artificial intelligence work? Well, we're going to have a look at it in great details in this course, but I want to give you a general understanding of it so we know where we're going. So usually AI, at least in the modern term and the modern sense of it, has a training data set. So training data sets could be whatever data you want. In this example, I have a lot of fruits. I have peaches, bananas, and apples. And someone, usually a data scientist, is going to take this data set and is going to train a model. Now training model is basically some code that has some statistical abilities and a model is born out of it. We will look in great details how this works. And for now, let's just understand that there is a model and it's basically just smart computer code that is being generated thanks to the data. And so here is an example of one of these algorithms you can understand, which is a classification algorithm. So the AI model is going to place all the fruits on two axis, or it could be a lot more axis, but two for now is easy to understand. And basically, it's going to group the data together. And we're going to say in a classification algorithm that the first one is peaches, and this is where the peaches are on my graph. Then we have the bananas together and then we have the apples together. And how to determine this group and how to place these elements on this graph is basically what the data scientist trains the AI model to do. Now, us as a user, so this is the backend preparation of the model type of stuff, and us as a user, we're going to be using the model. And how do we use the model? Well, we show a new image to the model that it hasn't seen before. So this image of apple has never been seen before because look at the training data sets, the three images of apples that existed before are different. And so we give a new image of an apple, but the model has been trained on so many images, not nine of them, but millions of them, that in the end it recognizes that yes, this is again an apple because it would classify it on the diagram next to all the other apples. So AI works like this. Now there are tons of different algorithms. There's tons of different ways to train your model, to have your data and so on, and we'll do a deep dive on all of this, but you have hopefully now a better understanding of how AI works. So let's go back in time because I think it's important for you to understand where we are with AI today. So computer science is very new because well, before we didn't have computer. And so in the 1950s, this was the birth of AI. So Alan Turing, who was a mathematician and the person that helps really make the whole computer science field exist, proposes something called the Turing test. And the Turing test is saying that the machine has intelligence if it's able to have a conversation with a human and fool the human into making the human think that the human is speaking to another human. So if the computer can pretend it's a human and a human cannot detect this, then we have achieved artificial intelligence. And there's another person called John McCarthy, who is also one of the father of artificial intelligence, who just invented the term. So this is in 1950s and all of this is pretty much a dream. Right now we don't have, at that time, we don't have anything that suggests that we will arrive to artificial intelligence, but they still define tests for it and they describe the term. Now in the 1970s, we have what's called expert systems. And expert systems are like the MYCIN expert system, which is an AI rule-based system to detect bacterias. So you will see this in greater detail as well, but you were to answer questions, a lot of them, and then the expert system, which would be one of the first AI, would say we think you have this bacteria and then we propose some kind of treatments. And in the 1990s, we have the new field of machine learning and data mining. So it's not a dream anymore. Our computers are becoming more and more powerful. We can collect data, we can organize it, and we start to have statistical breakthroughs in math that allows us to design algorithms to start doing machine learning. In 1997, Deep Blue is here. And Deep Blue is an AI by IBM, which has the power to defeat the world champion of chess at a time, Garry Kasparov. And it does it by just doing a lot of computations, analyzing the best moves and playing. But this is a big one because, well, before computers would always lose against chess players, or not always, but against the good ones at least, but this was the first time that a computer would beat a world champion. Then in 2010, we have the deep learning revolution. So this is where we are going to have neural networks and the type of algorithms today that you see in modern AI. And this is big because now we really have the power to give true intelligence to our AI models. And so in 2016, there's Google, which creates a algorithm and AI named AlphaGo, defeating the Go world champion, Lee Sedol in 2016. And this is big because Go is a very advanced game, more advanced than chess in a way that like, you cannot compute all the possible moves like you would in chess. And so therefore, the algorithm that IBM employed for Deep Blue did not work for Google AlphaGo. So a new approach was needed. And this was Google DeepMind. And this was really a revolution because we unlocked a new stage of AI. And nowadays we have AI in everyday life. So we have virtual systems, autonomous vehicles, healthcare diagnostics, we have chatbots, we have discussion ethics and regulations. And this is why nowadays we are learning about AI in practical terms. So I want to give you a few more use cases for AI. So we have good abilities now to transcribe and translate spoken language, which allows humans to communicate very easily, even if they don't speak the same language. We have the games and the games are very, very big fields of research in AI, because well, it seems simple, but this is where the breakthroughs happen and they get applied to everyday life. So we have chess, Go, StarCraft, and so on. AI is now able to help us drive cars or to fly airplanes, to do speech recognition and generation. So we can generate voices that look very human-like nowadays, thanks to AI. Good developers that write code also have now co-pilots, which allows them to get suggestions for code. And this is big because it has improved the productivity of many, many developers. Doctors are using AI to get assisted in their medical diagnosis. For example, to find a brain tumor, there's multiple occasions where your AI does see something that humans don't see. So this is a very good collaboration. We have, from a more business perspective, the automation of many business processes that used to be done manually, but now can be fully automated thanks to AI agents. And in the field of fraud detection, the anti-fraud algorithms are becoming more and more advanced thanks to your AI, which allows to catch more frauds ahead of time. So here is a practical example of how AI can be used. It's called IDP, or Intelligent Document Processing. So say, for example, we have an invoice. Someone takes a picture of an invoice and they put the image in a PDF file, and we're supposed to extract the data out of this invoice to insert it into a invoice processing system. So here we have an AI, which is specialized in IDP, and is going to process and extract data from this document. For these, there's gonna be several sub-AIs that are going to be leveraged. For example, computer vision, to be able to see the image and interpret it. Deep learning, to be able to understand how things work from an image perspective as well. And natural language processing, NLP, because we need to understand what everything means in order to extract it correctly. So for example, the seller, Example Inc, is going to be extracted by the AI. So is the buyer, that's me, Stephane Maarek, as well as all the items, as well as quantity and price. And this is very important because now all this data can be automatically inserted into a database where things can be processed much more naturally. And so this is complicated to develop, of course, but it is possible nowadays and has allowed AI to be in our life. So nowadays, what is AI? So we'll see this diagram a few times in the course. So we have AI, and AI is the overall field, okay? But within AI, we have machine learning. This is when the data is going to be used to train the AI models. Then we have deep learning. This is when we use something called neural networks, and we'll have a look at those, of course, in details in this course. And then we have generative AI or gen AI. And nowadays, if I tell you, or if I tell anyone on the street that have an AI, they already think about gen AI. So AI is the greater field. Gen AI is what people think about when we talk about AI. So this is chat GPT, when you have a chatbot, or Dell E for image generation and so on. But me, I will try to refer as much as possible as gen AI for the generative AI and AI for the overall field. Don't worry. We'll have a look at all these things in detail, but this was a short introduction into AI. So I hope you liked it. And I will see you in the next lecture.

---

### Lecture: About your Instructor

Hi and welcome, my name is Stephane Maarek, and I will be your instructor for this course. I'm delighted to have you here, I really hope that you will enjoy this course and that you will go all the way through with it. So, this is just a two-minute introduction so that you get to know me, and then we'll hop right into the course. I'm French, so if you hear a small accent, this is where it comes from, it's the sweet country of France. But I've also lived in the United States, in Australia, and now in Portugal. My expertise is going to be around AWS certifications and Apache Kafka. Why? Well because in my career, I've had the chance to be a data analyst, a big data engineer, a developer, and a solutions architect. Well, obviously nowadays I'm a teacher, I love to teach, and this is my passion, and I'm gonna help you achieve any goals you have through online learning. So before we get started with this course, there are two ways you can connect with me. The first place is on LinkedIn. So this is where I will share some news about AWS and the Kafka ecosystem. This is where I announce new courses, and this is where I congratulate my students. So, for example, if you've completed the course, or you passed a certification, make a post on LinkedIn and tag me, and I will make sure to congratulate you. I love to see my students reach their goals, this is my main motivation. The second way is on Instagram. So, Instagram is a big part of mine that I've started several years ago. So I love to travel the world, and I dedicate some of my time to actually meet my students. And to date, I've already met over 40 students. So every time I meet students, we'll have a chat about your goals, about how the course helped you in your career, and just general chat about life. And at the end of it, I will make a post on Instagram. So if you want to get the chance to meet me, or to read about other students' stories, then follow me on Instagram. Finally, before starting this course, I want you to set a goal. By setting a goal, you will have a much higher chance of finishing this course and learning a lot. So maybe you want to finish this course in three weeks, that's perfect. This is how you learn, and this is how you will make the most out of this course. And don't hesitate to go through the videos as many times as needed. This is what videos are used for. If necessary, you can speed up the video or slow it down, so it becomes easier for you to understand me. So, that's it for me. I hope you will enjoy the course, and I will see you in the next lecture. Happy learning! (bright music fades)
---

*Section 1 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*