<!-- Section 12 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 12 OF 15: Cost Management
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Intro to Cost Management

In this section, we are going to talk all about cost management. Obviously, storing your data on S3 is important, but of course we all want to do it in the most cost effective manner as possible. So this section we're going to go over all the different tools and ways that you can save costs when you're using Amazon S3. Now, we've already talked about how Amazon S3 is a highly available and cost effective cloud storage solution, but let's dive into the main cost factors here. So storage data transfer, APIs and monitoring. Now storage really refers to the data that you're going to store in your buckets. Amazon S3 offers virtually unlimited storage capacity, and that allows you to store retrieve any amount of data at any time. However, it's really important to consider the costs associated with the amount of storage that you utilize, especially if you are footing the bill. If your organization is not obviously in an organization, it's important, but it may be a little bit more important to you if it's coming out of your own wallet. Obviously, the more data you store, the higher the costs will be. So if you have files that you don't need in your S3 bucket, well, the easiest way to save costs is just going to be delete that data from your buckets. Now, the next cost factor here is going to be data transfer. This includes data transfer between different storage classes within Amazon, S3 and any outbound data transfer from your buckets. Now when you move data between storage classes or retrieve data from your buckets, you're probably seeing additional costs associated with that data transfer. Now, of course, it's essential to keep track of these costs, to optimize and usage and minimize your expenses in S3. Keep in mind that frequent changes between your storage classes could really increase your costs. So you might need to take a closer look at your data and better understand your access patterns to place it in the correct storage class. That way, it's not constantly being moved around. API requests are another crucial consideration for Amazon S3 APIs represent the number of API calls that you're going to make, such as things like gets, which is like retrieving data or just puts, which is uploading data. S3 charges for your API costs as we've talked about already and each API call ultimately going to incur a small cost. So therefore the number of API calls can really add up over time. Understanding your API usage patterns can help you optimize your costs and really minimize all these unnecessary calls that are going to increase your bill. Lastly, monitoring and analytics costs should be considered when you're using Amazon S3 features like Intelligent-tiering or storage lens while they provide valuable insights to your storage usage, performance and access patterns, they may have associated costs, especially if you enable some of these advanced features. So it's really important to evaluate the benefits that you're getting out of these tools versus the cost impact when you're using some of these features. So in summary, the primary costs that we're looking at here in Amazon S3 really include our storage, our data transfer, our API calls and our monitoring solutions. So by being mindful of some of these cost factors, you can really start to optimize your usage, minimize your expenses in S3 and obviously ensure efficient management of your data storage in the cloud. So we've seen this slide before. Of course, choosing the correct storage class is going to be paramount for saving costs if you are not accessing your data very frequently, well, it may make sense to start moving that data over towards the right on this screen as we move over towards the right, over to Glacier and things like that, Well, the costs per gigabyte go down to very, very minimum. So again, monitor your access pattern for a lot of your data. If you're not accessing it very often you want to start moving it across of this list to save on costs. Let's take a look at some other considerations for cost here. We're going to take a look at some of these main cost factors, including access rates, object size, object count and duration of storage. Now, the first is access rates, which really refers to how often you're going to access your data that's stored in S3. So it's important to choose the storage class that really aligns with your access patterns as frequent access or retrieval of the data may incur additional costs. So again, analyze your access rates will help you optimize your costs and allow you to select the most cost effective storage class for that particular data. Object size is another cost factor to consider when using Amazon S3 and we really haven't talked about it a whole lot. So while there are charges based upon the size of your object, there are minimum charges for objects smaller than 128 K So if you have a lot of small objects in your bucket, it's really essential to evaluate the overall cost impact of those. So if you have a bunch of smaller files, you might. Actually benefit from compressing them into a single larger file, and that actually may save some costs on S3. The next one is object count, and that really refers to the total number of objects that you're storing in S3. We already know that we can store an infinite amount of objects inside of our bucket. We don't have a limit in terms of the number of objects. However, it's important to know that as you increase the object count, that can have cost implications in terms of monitoring analytics and storage size. Some of these monitoring and analytics costs may increase as you start analyzing a larger number of objects. And storing more objects naturally increases your overall storage costs. So it's going to be crucial for you to evaluate the trade off between the benefits of an object count and the associated costs. So the more objects that you have in your bucket, the more it's going to cost for monitoring analytics and of course moving those objects between different tiers or classes. If you have things like lifecycle rules or intelligent tiering. And finally, duration should be a consideration when you're using certain storage classes in S3. Now remember that some of the storage classes charge a minimum duration fee. If you retrieve your data before the minimum number of days, it's essential to assess your data access requirements and choose the appropriate storage class based upon your expected retrieval patterns. So if you're going to put some backup or archive data on some of these storage classes, make sure you understand and be realistic about how often or when you're going to retrieve that data. So if it's just a copy of a backup file, most likely you won't need that. And then the extra cost, if you have to retrieve that may be worth it in that scenario. So by understanding the duration costs, you can make better informed decisions that align with your budget and your usage needs. The next topic for considerations for cost is obviously moving your data to the right storage class. That one should be pretty obvious in terms of saving costs here. Now of course we can use intelligent tiering, which is really designed to help us remove the uncertainty of which storage class to choose from or for data that we have unknown access patterns for. Keep in mind that Intelligent-tiering does have a monitoring pricing and it only monitors objects that are greater than 128. K says they have. Customers have saved $1 billion using intelligent tiering. So it could be an option for you if you're unsure of what your access patterns may be for some of your data. So if you have data in S3 and maybe Intelligent-tiering doesn't necessarily work well for your use case, well, we can simply use lifecycle rules in order to migrate our data for us. So if we have predefined time frames that we want to move our data, we can simply use lifecycle rules to do that instead of relying on intelligent-tiering to do that for us. Now remember that lifecycle rules only tiered data down and not back up. So it's not like intelligent tiering where I can move it back up to say, S3 standard if the data is being accessed more frequently. Lifecycle rules only go downward. So if you think you may be accessing your data more frequently, it might cost you more for frequent retrieval of that data. If lifecycle rules have moved it into a tier such as Glacier, if you're not sure of which storage class to use, or maybe the workload is consistent or requires frequent access, then you can simply just do direct puts to like S3 standard and have your data live on that storage class. So if you understand what your access pattern is, then you can go straight to that storage class without having to pay for intelligent tiering or risk putting it on a lower tier and having to pay retrieval fees and minimum storage fees. So the next way that we can save money is using the right retrieval mode. So if you recall, some of our storage classes have retrieval fees, especially when you're considering the glacier family of storage classes. So if we have an S3 bucket here, we have a storage admin and we need to get an object, we need to choose the data retrieval speed. And just like Fedex or UPS or whatever, the faster we need our data, well, the more it's going to cost us. So we have our retrieval fees of things like standard AIA and one zone. AIA is just a penny per gig. We go to Glacier, it's $0.03 per gig, and then we move to Glacier flexible and deep archive and you can see that the price keeps on going up. The faster that we need our data and it goes down, the slower that we require our data. So if you need to retrieve data from, say, Glacier Flexible, but you don't necessarily. Need it right away. You're going to work on it sometime this week. It's not necessarily urgent. Then you can choose something like standard or bulk and save quite a bit on your retrieval costs if you don't need that data right away. Now, if it's something like a backup or something like that where you need it immediately, it may be worth the cost to go ahead and get that expedited. So you have that data right away and you can restore that for the requester. So this is another way that you can save on costs using the right retrieval mode for your particular use case.

---

### Lecture: Savings Costs on Version-Enabled Buckets

So we talked about version enabled buckets for S3 quite a while ago and how we can effectively use them to version our objects. So when object versioning is enabled in your buckets, you essentially pay for every single version of your object. So say, for example, we have this object that we've written to our bucket called robot Jpeg. Maybe it's a picture of a robot that we've been working on building or something. Now when we first store the object, maybe our ID is 1111, and naturally we're going to pay for the cost to store that on S3. However, maybe as we work on our new robot and we make improvements and upload those pictures to S3, well, we're going to create new versions each time. As we learned earlier in the course, each new version now represents the latest version of the object, and the latest version of object is the one that will be retrieved when it is requested. However, each time we create a new version, we're actually still paying for all the old versions of the object as we continue to build more and more. So now we're paying for at least 8 or 9 of these different objects in here, and it starts to get expensive depending on how large these files are. Now, we talked about storage lens already and how it's a powerful feature to gain insights into your storage, But it also allows us to analyze our data and determine where you're keeping extra copies or versions, in this case of our objects. By identifying these redundant versions with storage lens, we can go ahead and take the necessary steps to reduce our storage costs and eliminate any unnecessary expenses by deleting maybe old versions of our data that are no longer needed. And finally, once those extra versions are identified, we can simply use lifecycle rules to expire those versions and go ahead and reduce our storage costs. Now we can define rules that delete objects based upon specified criteria like age or access frequency. And of course, once we set up our lifecycle rules, then we can automatically delete our unnecessary data and ultimately prevent unnecessary costs from accumulating on our AWS bill. So let's talk about deleting objects in a versioned bucket. We already know that if we delete an object in a version bucket, it doesn't actually delete the object, it just creates a delete marker as the latest version and it basically creates that soft delete. One thing to keep in mind here is if you're using some type of like third party tools or something like that to scan your S3 buckets for extra data, well, that third party tool is going to scan this particular object and say, you know what? It doesn't exist because there's a delete marker there. There's nothing there. So what we can do is we can actually show these hidden files that we're probably paying for by using something like storage lens. Now, by using storage lens, we can see how many delete markers are going to be in our bucket. And that of course will indicate that objects are hidden. But of course those are things that we're still paying for. So we can use storage lens to go ahead and figure out delete marker counts and figure out how much data we're actually still paying for that exists already.

---

### Lecture: Incomplete Multipart Uploads

So in the next part I want to talk about in cost savings is incomplete, multi-part uploads. Now we already know what multi-part uploads are. We take the original object, we're going to take parts of the object and we're going to upload all of them separately. And ultimately, what's going to happen is, as all those parts are uploaded, we complete our multi-part upload and the objects written to the S3 bucket. But what happens in the multi-part upload if some of our parts actually fail, you're actually paying for incomplete multi-part uploads. If you do nothing about this, all those extra little parts that already live there, you're going to actually pay for them and the parts remain and count towards your storage bill. So just like the delete markers, you can use storage lens to look at multi-part uploads to see how much storage you are using and probably accumulating towards your bill on failed or incomplete multi-part uploads. So that's another place to look if you're looking for some cost savings.

---

### Lecture: Other Ways to Save on Costs

So a couple other ways that we can save on S3 costs. We can of course, move our data to a different region with a lower price. Remember, not all regions are priced equally. Some are cheaper, some are more expensive. So if you happen to be storing your data in a more expensive region, well, consider moving that data to a different region that's cheaper. That's immediate cost savings there. The next thing we can look at is our replication. What we can do is take a look at all of our data and determine does all of our data actually need to be replicated to another S3 bucket or can we only replicate some of that data to save on costs? Remember, it does cost money to move data between regions. So if you don't necessarily need all that data to be moved between regions, maybe you only need a subset of that data in the event of a disaster recovery or something like that. Well, then you can actually just migrate some of your data and not all of your data to decrease your costs. And the last one here is to use native tools to query your data rather than downloading the contents to import into another tool. Keep in mind that AWS does integrate S3 with a lot of different services, so if you need to query the data that's already living in S3, take a look at something like Athena that can actually query your data in S3 rather than download that data from S3 and import into another tool. Remember, anytime we're downloading the contents from an S3 bucket, we're paying the outbound fee in order to download that. So check out some of the native tools that are available in AWS to make sure that they can meet your use cases and you could save on your bill there as well.

---

### Lecture: Realizing Costs Benefits of Consolidated Billing

The last part I want to touch on here is consolidated billing. Now, most organizations don't just have a single account. Most organizations will have a lot of accounts. Some have hundreds of accounts. And each one of those accounts may be storing data inside of S3 buckets. So if you take a look at this example here, I've got eight different accounts and I've got examples of what maybe some of these accounts may be storing. Account one has 100 terabyte in S3 account three has ten terabyte. ET cetera. And these are all the costs that are associated with storing that much data in S3. It's a pretty hefty bill, $29,000 a month. But if you look at we're storing a lot of data in S3 now, this is the cost per month, assuming S3 standard if you are using all these accounts separately. So let's take a look at this a little bit more detail. If we break this out a little bit further. Again, we have our account one, two, three, four, five on the left, and we've got the amount of storage that we're storing down here in green. If you break that apart in the monthly costs, you can see that, well, we're paying, I don't know, around $0.37, $0.35 is the cheapest here, but a lot of them are 39, 37. Ultimately, what we would love is that we would love to be able to pay this cheaper price for all of it. Obviously, the cheaper the better. This is really our ideal cost rate because that's the cheapest that we're going to find at this particular storage class. Now, one thing that we can do for our accounts, and I would say most organizations are already doing this, but if you're not, I wanted to bring it up to showcase the benefits of it. So one way that we can help save on costs is we can ensure that our accounts follow a proper structure. Now, most organizations, I would say, are doing this today, but they take all of their accounts and they put them into what's called an AWS organization. Now, when you enable an AWS organization, you get a management account, and one of the features that you can enable in the management account is consolidated billing. And what consolidated billing provides you is a single bill for all of your accounts. So in this case we have account one through eight. And as we consume resources in all of these accounts, well, the bill goes directly to our management account here and we get a single bill for all the resources that we consume throughout all eight accounts. Now, it does break that down per account. And of course, you can use things like tags or other things to identify where the costs are coming from. But essentially all of these accounts underneath of your organization are going to roll up into this one management account and you're going to get a single bill here. And then once you get that bill, obviously, then you would pay AWS. So let's check out some of the benefits that consolidated billing would give us. So if we look at our accounts one more time here again, we break down how much we're storing in each account and the costs per gig and our total bill here. Now what happens when you add consolidated billing? Well, that bill sees all of these combined. It doesn't see 100 terabyte, ten terabyte, 30 terabyte, 250 terabyte and builds them separately. That one bill says, you know what, Across all of my accounts, I'm consuming 1300 terabytes of storage. And what happens is Amazon then applies the cheaper rates because that's over our 450 terabyte, which is the cheaper rate. And it applies that cheaper rate to our total here. And that gives us a new bill which is almost $1,000 less just by consolidating our accounts. And then we get the cheaper rates because we're consolidating our billing into a single bill there. That's one of the benefits of consolidated billing. You can take advantage of these economies of scale as you scale up and use more resources, then you actually get cheaper rates and when you consolidate them into a single account, you can actually realize those benefits on your bill.

---

### Lecture: Tools That Can Help with Cost Management

Let's take a look at cost management here. Now we have a lot of tools that are native to AWS that can provide us a lot of good information that we can use to monitor our costs. So the first one here is Cost Explorer. It's a completely free tool that's offered by AWS. Now it allows you to visualize your data and start gaining insights into your AWS costs. Now, Cost Explorer allows you to filter data based on dimensions such as like service, region type, all that fun stuff, and you can start filtering your data to understand where your costs are coming from. It does provide a user friendly interface for cost analysis and budgeting, and of course you can use it directly with S3. Now storage lens, of course, that's going to be one of our main tools specifically for S3. It really combines data from multiple tools and presents them on a dashboard for us. It does offer things like advanced metrics for in-depth analysis, including metrics like gets, puts, bytes, offloaded, etcetera. It does provide a good breakdown of status codes if you want to get that deep 204 versus a 206 versus a 200. It also helps us monitor and optimize our storage costs effectively. So storage lens is probably going to be your main tool for trying to break down your costs associated with S3 and better understand where you can save money. Now of course we have our AWS cost and usage report. It really acts as a data version of Cost Explorer. It provides us raw data for performing analytics, such as using Athena to get exported data. It does offer us more flexibility and analyzing cost data in detail, and it does also enable deeper cost optimization and custom reporting for us. A great tool to use for Amazon S3. Now we have Cloudwatch S3 metrics. If you want to get really deep in terms like looking at the logs to better understand your costs. Cloudwatch is going to offer us like monitoring capabilities specifically for S3. It provides two default metrics total bucket size and the number of items in the bucket. But you can also track metrics related to gets puts and our Http status codes. So one of the benefits of using Cloudwatch there. Now we also have service logs which allow you to access very granular level of S3 bucket activity. So we have two different types of logs. We have S3 server access logs, which record access requests made to your bucket. And then we also have our Cloudtrail log data events which captures detailed API activity. Now these logs need to be enabled to view and analyze, but again, if you really need to get deeper into analyzing your usage of Amazon S3 service logs could be an option for you. And finally, we have our S3 inventory reports, so this can help obtain a comprehensive list of every single object inside of your bucket. It can provide details and attributes of each of those objects. It also will allow you to export the inventory report to an S3 bucket for further analysis. Now, this is particularly useful for identifying objects that are smaller than 128 K so you can use the inventory report to report on that. So as you can see, like AWS offers a very wide range of native tools to monitor the costs of your S3 buckets. So by leveraging any of these tools or combination of these tools, you can really optimize your spending, improve your efficiency of your data and gain insights into your environment. Now, one thing I wanted to also mention is beyond the native tools that we have, we also have tons and tons of third party tools that are available in the market. Now, I'm not going to list any on here because I don't want to play favorites. There are lots of open source and paid versions of tools that you can use to do cost analysis on both S3 and of course, across your entire cloud environment. If these native tools aren't necessarily meeting your standards or you find that it's kind of a pain to get what you need to effectively monitor your costs, maybe take a look at some of those third party tools and maybe they can give you what you need. So that's going to wrap up our cost management section. Hopefully that was beneficial to you and provided a lot of data and how you can analyze all your S3 usage and your data and make sure that you can get the best bang for your buck when you're using Amazon S3. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next lecture.

---

*Section 12 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
