<!-- Section 11 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 11 OF 15: Amazon S3 Performance
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Using Data Locality to Reduce Network Latency

In this section, we're going to discuss an important aspect of any cloud storage, and that's performance. Now, although S3 is a hosted service, there are many things that you can do or some of the features that you can take advantage to really increase the performance of reading or writing data to Amazon S3. The performance of a storage service is essentially how quickly and efficiently data can be transferred to and from that storage. Now, for something like a cloud based storage, that may seem pretty basic, but it does have pretty far reaching implications. For example, when you have an efficient S3 performance, it ensures that applications and your services that rely on the storage can run smoothly. And of course, without bottlenecks, this is going to be crucial for data intensive applications that you might be running in your organization. So imagine you're running some kind of big data analytics. You want to distribute this content to a pretty wide audience, or you want to handle backup and recovery processes. In all of these scenarios, you're really dealing with a large volume of data. Now, high performance is going to be absolutely critical in order to process and manage all this data within an acceptable time frame. If you're thinking about backup and recovery processes, well, you want to make sure you can back up in a timely fashion. But it's really, really important when you get to that recovery phase, if you have an outage and you need to recover data, well, time is of the essence. You want to make sure that you can recover that data very, very quickly. So what really affects the performance of S3? It's a hosted service, you think? Well, there's probably not a lot I can do. Well, it's not really just a single element. There are, in fact, several factors in play when we think about performance. First, the way data is accessed, whether it's through high frequency, small reads or very, very large bulk retrievals, it can really make a difference. Then there's the issue of how data is organized within your S3 buckets. Things like naming conventions of your S3 objects can surprisingly have a big impact. Moreover, the configuration of your S3 buckets such as enabling, transfer, acceleration or choosing the right storage class is also crucial. Finally, network latency and the bandwidth between the client that's accessing the data that lives in your S3 bucket can definitely affect performance as well. This section is going to highlight a number of those features and considerations that you can use to increase performance when interacting with S3. Now, the first one we're going to talk about is data locality. And and hopefully this one should seem pretty evident. But say we have a bucket called Amazon S3 Deepdive and this bucket has objects in it. But more importantly, this bucket lives at us East one that is Northern Virginia in the US. Now in your accounts, maybe in your production accounts, you may be actually consuming services in multiple regions. So in this case, maybe we have workloads that run in US East one, US one AP, Northeast one and AP South two. Maybe it's the same application, but we're processing data and all that data lives in our bucket in US East one. So if we think about the process of accessing this data from us East one like we may be pretty good. We're accessing data from the same region that the data lives in. Now we think about AP Northeast one. Okay, maybe we have a little bit of latency here, but it's still sufficient enough to process our data. Now, as we move across Europe, maybe we increase latency and okay, maybe it's starting to be a problem and maybe even we move to AP South two, We have very high latency trying to access our data in our bucket and it's causing some issues. So data locality, meaning where is the data and where is it being accessed from, can have an enormous impact on your performance. So what can we do to help? Well, if we have all of our regions and we have our applications that are accessing our data and we had all of our data in US East one, well, we can use some of the features that we've already talked about in this course, namely replication to start replicating that data into buckets that live in other regions. So we replicate the data to EU West one, AP, South two and AP Northeast one. So now we have the same copy of data that lives in all four of our regions and now we can access all the data locally from our application so we have minimal latency to access the same data. But we're relying on cross region replication to ensure that data lives in all of our regions. So that is one way that we can increase performance of our applications that are accessing our data is simply make the data local to the application. We can use some of the features that we've already talked about in order to do that.

---

### Lecture: Using Parallelization for Better Read Write Performance

The next topic here is Parallelization. So what does that actually mean? So if we have an application that's running in AWS and we want the application to process data that lives inside of our bucket. Now, inside of our bucket, we may have a prefix called customers and that's where all of our objects live. Our application is simply going to read data from our bucket and it's going to read from Amazon S3 Deepdyve slash customers. Now, the downside to just using a single prefix here is that you have a maximum rate of 5500 reads per second. And if you exceed 5500 reads per second, you may actually get a 503 slowdown error returned back from the API. So any time you read from a specific prefix in a bucket, you are limited to 5500 reads per second. Now that's a lot, 5500 reads per second. But if you are processing a ton of ton of data through your application and you need to input all that data into your app, well, you may actually exceed that. So one thing you can do is you can increase the read and write performance by using Parallelization. Let's see what that looks like. How do we actually increase our data throughput? Again, we've got our app and we've got our bucket. But in this case, what we can do is we can reorganize our data and we can actually put individual customers into individual prefixes. So instead of lumping them all together under a single prefix called customers, now we can break out customers into each individual prefix. So we have customer one, two, three and four here and we have customers respective data in each one of these prefixes. Now what we can do is we can rewrite our application to start reading our data, but read it from the individual prefixes. So we're reading from customer one, customer to customer three and customer four. And again, we're doing this in parallel. We're not just going out and getting customer one and waiting till that's done and getting Customer two and waiting. Until that's done, we can go grab all this data at the same time by reading individual prefixes. Now before I said we are limited to 5500 reads per second per prefix. And in this case, now we're actually reading from four different prefixes at the same time. So what we get is a new maximum rate of 22,000 reads per second. So that means 5500 reads per second. And if you do the math, that comes up to 22,000 reads per second. So by reading from multiple prefixes at the same time, in parallel, we can actually increase the maximum rate that we can read data from our bucket. Again, that's one way we can increase, read or write performance for our bucket. Now this works the same way for writes as well. Again, the example here is reads. But if you are writing data to a bucket, if you write data to multiple prefixes at the same time, you do get a new higher maximum rate for writing data to a bucket. So that's parallelization, which means that instead of us reading from a single prefix or writing to a single prefix, now we're reading or writing from multiple prefixes at the same time.

---

### Lecture: Scale Your Applications for Higher Throughput

The next one I want to talk about is scaling your application. Before we talked about how we scale our application by doing different kind of reads and writes. But this time we want to talk about is scaling your actual application. So we have our app here. Maybe it's a database that's running on EC2 and this app is querying petabytes of data from our bucket. Now, since this application is running on EC2, the maximum network throughput that we be able to get from an EC2 instance is 100 gig a second. That's a pretty substantial EC2 instance, but you can get up to 100 gig a second on EC2. Now this means that you may be limited to the transfer rates of a single instance, even if you're reading from hundreds or thousands of prefixes where we think we're going to get hundreds or thousands of reads a second based upon parallelism that we just talked about, well now we actually may be limited to the network throughput of our instance. So similar to what we talked about before, what we can do here is we can start scaling out our application rather than having a single application that's querying data from EC2. Maybe we scale out our application instead, we have four different apps and each one of those actually has its own 100 gig, a second throughput into S3. So now instead of being limited to 100 gig, we actually are limited to 400 gig. We've just got four times the performance by scaling out our application and now we can actually read and write data much faster to Amazon. S3 Now by scaling out your application across multiple instances instead of using a single instance, we're using multiple instances, we can actually achieve multiple terabits per second in order to access our data that lives in our Amazon. S3 Buckets.

---

### Lecture: Using CloudFront to Serve Data to Customers

The next one I want to talk about is how we can serve data to customers. So let's take a look at an example. In this case, maybe we're a streaming company and we're storing all of our assets inside of an S3 bucket. Now, in this case, this S3 bucket lives in Us-east-1 and we've got all of our video assets that live inside of our bucket. Maybe this is a nine part series. We've got all of our videos living in a single bucket inside of Us-east-1. But we're a company that serves our videos across the United States. So we may have viewers in New York, viewers in Dallas, viewers in Los Angeles. And of course, they're out there to watch the best Amazon S3 course out there. Maybe it's a nine part series on Amazon S3. I don't know. And so our users in New York, they're accessing our data. And it's pretty low latency because New York is on the East Coast and so is US East one. So not a lot of distance between them. Latency looks good. The users in New York have no problem watching our video. Now we move to Dallas. Dallas is kind of central us and we may have a little bit more latency from Dallas over to Virginia. Now, these are probably exaggerated a little bit. You probably won't have 50 milliseconds latency from Dallas to Virginia, but for the sake of this video, Dallas may have a little bit more latency accessing our buckets on the East Coast. And finally, Los Angeles, which is actually on the West Coast, totally opposite coast of where our data is stored. Well, they may be having problems accessing our video because they have a much higher latency. They're going across the country in order to access our data. So we may have problems in Dallas and we may have problems in Los Angeles that they're buffering our videos when they're trying to watch and learn about Amazon. S3 So what can we do to increase performance for our users? How can we increase the performance for our customers? Again, our video assets bucket lives in US East One, which is on the East Coast. What we can do is actually introduce CloudFront and what we can do is distribute our content across all the edge locations across the United States. So now what happens is these edge locations actually live in all these different cities across the US. And when our users across New York, Dallas and Los Angeles access our content, well, they're not having to go all the way to us East One in order to access the content, they would actually communicate with the local CloudFront edge location that's probably in their city. New York, Dallas and Los Angeles are large enough where they probably have one or more edge locations in that city. So now rather than going all the way over to the East Coast, the folks in Los Angeles can actually interact with the content using the CloudFront Edge location because it's now local and now they don't have any problem with accessing it. Users in New York access the content in New York, very low latency. Dallas users access the content in Dallas, very low latency, right. And same thing for LA. They're accessing the content in LA that's been distributed and they have a great video experience as well. So by using CloudFront, we can distribute our content across all of these edge locations and now our users don't have to go all the way to our bucket in Virginia. They can actually access the data locally using CloudFront edge locations.

---

### Lecture: Faster Uploads for Your Data with Transfer Acceleration

So up until this point, we've really been talking about reading data from our Amazon S3 bucket, but it may be important to increase write performance as well. Let's take a look to see what we have. So again, in this example, we're a streaming company and we're creating and editing videos and maybe we're working with video editors around the world where a US based company, but maybe we have video editors in Europe and of course, this video editor as they're working on our videos and editing them, making them look perfect. They have all these edited videos that they need to upload into our bucket. Now, in this case, since we're a US based company, maybe our bucket still lives in US East One. If you think about the video editor location as compared to the Bucket and where it lives in US East one that's thousands of miles apart from Europe all the way back to the US across the Atlantic Ocean. And our video editor well, may not have a great experience uploading it because it's so far apart and they may have slow upload times. So our video editor is not happy in this case. So what can we do? Well, we can use a feature called transfer acceleration. So across the AWS infrastructure, not thinking about your account, but thinking about all the infrastructure that Amazon itself manages for AWS inside of their architecture. Of course, they have all the services that support S3, in this case US East one, but throughout their infrastructure they also have these edge locations as well. They may have an edge location in London, they may have a location in Hyderabad, and these edge locations have an AWS backbone to the rest of the architecture, a very fast private network backbone that Amazon can use to actually transfer data very, very fast. We're not thinking about the public Internet that's inherently unreliable. This is private connectivity that Amazon has laid down and they use between all their services. Now, what our video editor can do is rather than upload those videos directly to us, one, a video editor can now upload using our edge locations and on the back end, Amazon's going to actually use that backbone to upload that data into our bucket that lives all the way in US East one. So from a video editor perspective, they have a really great experience by uploading data because they're simply uploading data to a local edge location and then Amazon itself takes care of migrating that data from the edge location all the way over to our bucket, regardless of where that lives. So we really accelerate the upload for our user by using edge locations, very similar to how we accelerated the download for our users using CloudFront for content distribution. Now what we're doing is we're distributing edge locations where users can use to upload data as well. So let's take another look to see what this looks like on a map. So again, we have the US over here on the left and we have Europe on the right. Again, we have our video assets bucket that lives in the US on the East Coast and we've got our video editor in Europe now we've got our edge location in Europe and this video editor can simply upload using the edge location. And now on the back end, Amazon's going to go ahead and migrate our data into our bucket. Again. The video editor has a great experience because they're working with a local edge location versus having to go all the way over to. Usds one Directly across the internet you get much faster upload speeds for your data. Now, the great thing about all these edge locations is they are all over the place. AWS has created edge locations all around the world. There's hundreds of them everywhere. So if you decide to add more video editors to your team, maybe in Norway or Sweden, this user up here can access a local edge location in Norway. And then on the back end we accelerate the transfer of the data using that edge location. Same thing in Greenland. If you have a user up there that's editing videos that needs to upload that data, this user can simply upload using the local edge location and the data is going to be transferred over to our bucket using AWS private backbone. So again, edge locations all around the world, no matter who you're working with, if you have a centralized bucket where you want folks to upload to, this is a great way that you can really accelerate your uploads to an AWS bucket. So how do I actually use transfer acceleration? Well, the first thing is you go into your bucket and you simply enable it. It's simply edit And do I want to enable it or not enable it? That's really the only choice that you get now. When you enable it, you actually get what's called an accelerated endpoint. Now, the original or the default endpoint for our Amazon S3 Deep-dive bucket may look like this. Amazon S3 Deepdive. amazon.com and now the accelerated endpoint is Amazon S3. Deep dive dot S3 dash accelerate dot Amazon Aws.com. So we have a different endpoint that we would use in order to upload our data. And now it's accelerated using AWS backbone. Now keep in mind this does incur costs if you use transfer acceleration and make sure you check out the pricing to make sure that it's going to be worth it for your use case. Does it really make a difference? Does transfer acceleration really make a difference? Well, it actually does. In the middle here is a map of the US and the X is generally where I live, kind of central us. Now there's a website that you can actually use to test whether it makes a difference, and it's going to test all kinds of different regions for you. Now, I ran this test and here are the results of some of these tests. How fast is it if I use transfer acceleration versus a traditional endpoint going to Us-east-1, which is in Virginia? And by the way, on the map, you can see the red dot there with a V, just because I know a lot of folks taking this course may not be from the US. So I just want to make sure you understand where we're talking about here. So in this case, if I were to transfer data to Northern Virginia or Us-east-1 using transfer acceleration, I may get a 1% increase. Not a whole lot. May not be worth the cost for that particular use case. Now, I ran against San Francisco, which is US West one, and for some reason it was 4% slower. So transfer acceleration may not be perfect and may also depend on your Internet connectivity where you're coming in from. ET cetera. In this case, it was 4% slower. And you can see where San Francisco is on the map here. And finally, Oregon. Oregon, you see on the map in the top left there, it was actually 4% faster for me to use transfer acceleration going to Oregon, which is US West two. That's the US. What about outside of the US? Now Dublin. So the test ran against Dublin, which is EU West one. It was actually 25% faster with me using transfer acceleration versus not using transfer acceleration quite a bit faster. How about Frankfurt? 39% faster using transfer acceleration. And finally, Mumbai was actually 76% faster using transfer acceleration versus not using transfer acceleration. So you can really see that transfer acceleration excels when you're moving data or uploading data to buckets to regions that are far away. When it's local, you get a little bit of performance increase or in my case, you get a performance decrease if I'm going to San Francisco. But in this case, if I'm going from the US over to Europe, you can see it's considerably faster if I'm using transfer acceleration versus not using transfer acceleration. So down here at the bottom I post a link. I've also included it as a resource. On this lecture. You can access this site and you can test it for yourself. It'll actually download a file locally and it'll upload to S3, I guess to an Amazon account so it doesn't incur any costs on your side, but it will upload using the standard endpoint and then it'll upload using the accelerated endpoint and it shows you the difference between the two. So I thought it would be really cool to showcase the difference between not using acceleration and using acceleration in a real world scenario here. And of course you can see if you're uploading data to a region that's pretty far away, you get a substantial increase in performance when you're writing data.

---

*Section 11 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
