<!-- Section 7 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 7 OF 13: Generative AI Model Fundamentals
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  Generative AI Model Fundamentals

In 2023. Large language models changed the world. But how do they work? Well, they're built on something called the transformer architecture. And although the exam might not expect you to know the details of that, I think it's helpful to have some background on the inner workings of large language models such as GPT and Claude, before we get into using them. Now, together with a series of hands on labs using SageMaker, I'll show you how generative AI works under the hood. And I think you'll agree it's both fascinating and maybe not as complicated as you thought. So let's find out how modern AI works and get a little bit more experience with SageMaker along the way.

---

### Lecture: The Transformer Architecture

All right, let's go there. The world of Transformers. That's the T in ChatGPT, folks, as we'll soon learn. And generative AI in general. Let's talk about large language models. GPT and how AWS supports this world. Keep in mind GPT comes from OpenAI, which is technically a competitor to Amazon. So you're not going to see ChatGPT or GPT four in the world of Amazon, but the earlier public models will show up. So and more generally, we want to talk about the transformer architecture and how these things work. So again, the exam does not always focus on Amazon specific things and concepts. They might ask you at some point in the future how transformers work in general, and not just how Amazon implements them or makes them available to you. We'll also spend some time on the concept of self-attention. There's a long evolution of transformers in large language models and GPT and the like that drew off of previous research and things like machine translation, autocomplete, even robotics and AI driven video games. But the one big insight that kind of kicked things forward was something called self-attention. So we'll spend some time on how that works, too. Where did transformers come from anyway? So the evolution of it goes all the way back to RNNs. Recurrent neural networks and LSTMs. We talked about this earlier in the course, and we actually used an example of that to do sentiment analysis on reviews. Right. So we've seen that a simple recurrent neural network can be effective at extracting some meaning out of text. After we tokenize that text, of course, and convert the text into numbers. And as a reminder, the general idea of an RNN is simply that it has this feedback loop for hanging on to information as it goes. So as we process individual tokens, it can feed that state back into the next loop through the RNN, and do this repeatedly to arrive at a result at the end of the day. So this ends up to be a very useful way of modeling sequential Things, you know, more generally time series. But it can also be applied to language, which is fundamentally a sequence of words or at the level of the actual processing, a sequence of numerical tokens that represent words. So that's cool and all. So we can build on that. And let's talk about using that for the purpose of machine translation. So one way that we can do that in this example we're trying to go from English to Klingon. Just for fun. We have what's called an encoder decoder architecture here. So the idea is that we have an encoder. Its encoder is to take a piece of text. In this case please translate me. And we're going to feed those through a bunch of RNNs sequentially. Again like we just do this one word at a time. And between each word we have this hidden state that represents the meaning up to this point. And we keep passing that along until we get to the end of the sentence that we want to translate. All right. So then when we're done, we have this last hidden state. So remember, as we're processing each RNN step, we end up with a hidden state that is trying to encode the meaning of this phrase. So far, it's in this giant vector. It's not just a single number, but by the time we're done with that final iteration, when we're done with this sentence, we have that last hidden state that we're left with, and this is our best representation that we have of the meaning of that sentence. We then pass that sentence over to the decoder, which has the opposite job of taking that hidden state and turning it back into tokens. So we're just flipping it on its head, basically. However, this decoder has been trained on Klingon, so it can take that hidden state and turn it not into English tokens, but Klingon tokens instead. And I looked it up and please translate me close to I guess I have no idea how to say that. And I think I is in quotes because Klingon doesn't have a word for please. Really. However, there's a problem here, right? So by having that one vector, that one hidden state that encodes the entire thing, that creates what we call an information bottleneck. So as we go and iterate through this sentence, if we had a really long sentence, the meaning from the start of that sentence or the start of that paragraph, or whatever it is could get lost and diluted over time. And that's not necessarily a good thing, right? So while you can do machine translation using just RNNs and an encoder decoder architecture, it's not the best approach. Now, the big breakthrough in 2017 was an academic paper called Attention is All You Need. And this really put the world of natural language processing on its head. The idea here is that we don't keep building up this hidden state iteratively. We have an individual hidden state at each step, so each individual word would have its own hidden state for each individual token. So we don't lose anything and we process all those tokens together. So this deals better with differences in word order as well. The reason being that when I'm doing the decoding, I don't just have the limited view of that one hidden state. I can look at the states of all the words surrounding it. So as I'm decoding, say the second token here, the second word of whatever that is, I'm not limited to just looking at that one hidden state. I can look at the hidden states associated with each word in the sentence at the same time. So I'm not losing any information. I have much more information at my disposal about the meaning of each word surrounding the word that I'm trying to translate at that time. This also gives us a concept of relationships between words, and we're going to dive in deep on how that works. So that's what attention is. It's basically saying, as I'm translating this token, what other tokens in this sentence should I pay attention to? What, uh, what words are related to this word as I'm translating it or trying to extract meaning from it? And that can be useful for getting an idea of the context of that word, right? Sometimes words have different meanings depending on the context and what other words surround them and how they're being used. So attention allows us to pick up on those relationships and have more meaning associated with the token that might be dependent more on the context and how it's being used in a sentence. However, there's still a limitation in this particular architecture. RNNs are still sequential in nature, so I'm still processing that encoder one token at a time. And yes, I'm saving off those states at each step, but it's still being done sequentially. I have to do one token, then the next token, then the next token. Say I want to translate it. Translate the first token. Translate the second token. Translate the third token token. The difference is that we have these attention weights that we can actually use to tie these back to other tokens as we go, but still we're doing this one token at a time. That's not really a good use of modern computing resources that are very good at parallelizing these sorts of operations. So it really holds us back because we can't parallelize this stuff and really do this at a massive scale. Now, I want to call your attention to the diagram here. Notice that these arrows have different sizes and thicknesses to them. Those represent the actual attention weights. So when I'm translating, which I guess is it's translate, you know, in this particular example, maybe that's paying more attention to the word please than to the word me in extracting the meaning of translate in that case. And you know, what those actually work out to be will vary based on the use case. And we'll dive into some examples of that shortly. So how do we get around the limitation of RNNs being sequential? How do we get around that sequential limitation and actually do things like machine translation in parallel? Well, that's where the idea of transformers comes into place. So in this case, we're ditching the RNNs entirely just for feedforward neural networks. These are just the plain old neural networks where you put something in one end and something else comes out the other, right? And it learns what all the weights are in the middle to extract meaning out of the inputs into whatever is output. So by getting rid of the RNNs entirely and replacing those with feedforward neural networks, we can actually start to do things in parallel, which is pretty cool. And this uses a mechanism called self-attention, where on each state, as we're going through the encoder, we can actually have those attention weights back to other tokens as we go to try to understand the meaning of each token right from the get go. Right. So that's important, right? If we're going to do this all in parallel, it means that I'm not doing things in order anymore. I need to have some sort of concept baked in to each individual token as to what its relationship to the other tokens is. Exactly. The part of that is the attention weights that define those relationships between words. Part of it is also knowing where it is positionally. That's what we call positional encoding, which we'll also talk about in a moment. The key being, however, this makes it parallelizable and this allows us to train on much more data. So by ditching RNNs entirely, we can now do everything in parallel. And that's the key to making large language models possible. This makes it possible to train these systems, these giant neural networks, on the entire contents of the internet, on the entire contents of Wikipedia, on the entire contents of every book we can get our hands on, which is exactly what's been happening.

---

### Lecture: Self-Attention and Attention-Based Neural Networks

So let's go into some more depth on how self-attention works. All right. So each encoder or decoder, whatever we're using in our transformer has a list of embeddings for each token. So we're not dealing with actual words here. Again those words are being tokenized into some sort of numerical representation. And furthermore those are being fed into what we call an embedding layer, where those tokens are being converted into a giant multi-dimensional vector. And the space between those vectors basically represent how similar those tokens are to each other. So words that kind of have the same meaning end up close to each other within that multi-dimensional space. Anyway, just talking about what we're feeding it into here. So basically the input for each token is this big vector. That's its embedding layer. The job of self-attention is to produce a weighted average of all the token embeddings. And the magic is going to be in computing the attention weights, which we're going to dive into right now. When we're done with all this, it results in tokens being tied to other tokens that are important for its context. So if a word has a different meaning in two different contexts, that new resulting token will represent that Underlying meaning, right? So in this example here to the right we have two sentences. One, I read a good novel. In that case we can see that there is a stronger attention value being given to the word read. Right. And it can use that combination of knowing that I'm using the word novel in the context of the word read, to know that what I really want to get is a token that represents the word book in its meaning. And on the other hand, novel can mean something else. It can mean something unique or original, right? Or new. So in the case of the attention is a novel idea, perhaps I have a thicker attention weight going to the word idea. And I know that novel used in conjunction with the word idea, means that I'm probably talking about something original and not a book. So that's the magic of self-attention. It can learn these relationships between words, and learn how those relationships result in a different contextual meaning for a given token. So after the self-attention block here, we've basically converted these tokens into their true meaning, given their context and where they are relative to other tokens in the sentence. That's what we're trying to do here. So how does that actually work? So under the hood in that self-attention layer there are three matrices of weights. And these are all just learned through back propagation. So as we're training this huge mess on, you know, actual Wikipedia articles and everything in Reddit and every book that we could find on the internet, it's training these matrices in what they should look like. And that's how it learns what these relationships are between tokens. There are three of them, and they're called the query, the key and the value matrices. So what happens is every token gets a query a key and a value vector. And those are computed by multiplying the embedding for that token against these matrices. All right. So we take that embedding that each token was converted into. We multiply that against these learned matrices for query key and value. And we get back vectors associated with query key and value for every token. All right. With me so far So then what. So now we have to compute a score for each token. And we do that by multiplying the query with each key of every other token around it. All right. Now mathematically that's done with a dot product. And that's why we call this scaled dot product attention. That's the fancy word for it. Dot product is just one of many similarity functions you can use. So we do specify that it's scaled dot product attention as opposed to some other function attention. Right. And then in practice we apply a softmax layer after that to normalize those scores that are coming out of it. All right. So we take that result of the matrix multiplication for query key and value. We multiply the query with each key of everything else that's around it. And that results in scores for each individual token as we're going through. All right. And then we use softmax to make sure it's all normalized. Now beyond that there's something called masked self-attention as well. So the idea here is to prevent your tokens from peeking into the future. So as I'm reading a sentence, I don't know what words come after that word that I'm currently reading. Right? My brain doesn't work that way, and this is a way of mimicking that ability. So by introducing a mask, I can ensure that, for example, when I'm processing the word a, I'm applying this mask against the other tokens so that I'm only going to look at the word a and all the results from the other tokens get masked out and multiply by zero there, right? If I go to the next token and say a good, this mask says, okay, I can look at the results from a before that and for myself, good. But nothing after that. And when I'm processing the word novel, I'm allowed to look at a and good before that. But anything after that token gets zeroed out. Remember this is all happening in parallel. That's the whole key here. That's how we can do this at scale. But this is a mechanism by which we can ensure that even though we're processing this in parallel, it's sort of processing things sequentially conceptually. Right. So any given token cannot process information from tokens after it, even though it's all being done in parallel. GPT does this, um, other models such as Bert, which is slightly different, do something else. So GPT just to spoil alert here, a little bit of how it works is built entirely on decoders. It's just stacks of decoders and nothing else. Bert is built on stacks of encoders and nothing else, so you don't always have to have an encoder and a decoder. You can use one or the other and still get great results. But because of Bert's encoder approach, this approach doesn't really work the same way it does something called masked language modeling, where it can mask out, uh, tokens in a different way that aren't necessarily in sequence. So like we said in this example, the word good can look at the word a, but it can't look at the word novel. Right. And um, this is just how it works conceptually. The implementation details do vary based on the transformer that we're talking about. So what comes next? All right. So now you just sum everything up. So we multiply all the values by the scores. And then we add them up. So we take those value vectors that we got by multiplying it against the value matrix. We multiply that by the scores we just talked about in the previous slide. And that gives us a new product vector that we're going to call z here. That's just the value multiplied by those scores for each individual token. We then add them all up together and we get a final z vector for that token. And now we're done. So we have those updated embeddings. This is basically the final embedding that we have that represents that token. So that's how we've reached this z token that represents the true meaning of the word novel for example. So in this case we started off with an embedding of the word novel that didn't know anything about his context. We passed it through this self-attention process that we just described, and we end up with this purple Z vector. Conceptually speaking, it's not really purple that represents the true meaning of that word in that context. So in this case, whatever we ended up with for novel at that z layer probably means something more like book than the word novel itself. And at this point we have our updated embeddings for each token. So we have new tokens that replace the original ones that capture more of the meaning of that token within the context of the words surrounding it, which is pretty awesome. All right. So those are going to go on and weight the token embeddings as they're passed forward into the feed forward neural network. And that's where the huge mess of parameters and weights and biases live. All the complexity of this large language model that learns how a given language works and how to talk. Basically, one more twist and implementation, sort of an optimization, if you will, is something called multi-headed self-attention. And it's just a fine point really. So I talked conceptually in the previous slides about the q, k and v vectors. We talked about taking the embeddings for each token, multiplying them across against the q, k and v matrices. And mathematically that should give you back a vector, right. So the trick here is that we're going to take those vectors which are very long and reshape them into matrices. The only reason is that I can then process each row of those matrices in parallel. So it's just a way to further parallelize this process. Now the number of rows that we split each vector into is referred to as a head. So the number of rows that I'm reshaping those query key and value vectors into are going to be the number of quote unquote heads that I have in my multi-headed self-attention mechanism.

---

### Lecture: Applications of Transformers

So what are some applications of Transformers before we get into how they actually work at a lower level? Well, the obvious one is chat. You know, we've all heard of ChatGPT and its competitors out there now. Transformers by themselves don't actually make good chat bots. You have to train them further to know how to hold a conversation, and how to go back and forth with somebody and retain that context from earlier messages. So Transformers are just sort of the underlying building block, the foundation model, if you will. We'll use that term again later that applications like ChatGPT can be built on top of. You also need to build things on top of it, like moderation, making sure that it's not telling you things that are offensive. Right? So it's just the first step for a chatbot. Transformers can also be used to answer questions, so you can train it to take in a string of a question and then some token. That means generate an answer and give you an answer. So just like in the previous slides, we saw examples of feeding in English language. And then a token that says go and translate this into Klingon or whatever language you want. We could also have a token that says, just answer this question And for a deep enough transformer, if you have millions upon millions of parameters within it, it could have the complexity to actually figure out how to give you a reasonable answer to a question, or at least an answer. That sounds reasonable. Right. That's an important distinction with these things. Uh, Transformers are just these giant neural networks with self-attention layers sprinkled in between them. They have no inherent sense of right and wrong, no inherent sense of truth. They have no sense of personal experience. Right. So they're very good at producing text that sounds correct, but it's not always correct. And we have to keep that in mind. Also, you can do things that aren't just generating text. You can also simplifies things and have a layer on top of that transformer that just boils things down to one thing or the other. So you can use it for classification for different types of natural language inputs, an obvious application is sentiment analysis. So if I'm feeding it, say, an online movie review or a tweet or something, I might just slap another layer on top of my transformer that boils it all down into positive or negative sentiment, and trains it on that instead. Named entity recognition is also something else you can use it for. So if people are talking about certain things and the text that you're analyzing, it can map those back to specific entities, even where those entities might be referred to by different names. Summarization. You can give it a big bunch of lengthy reports and just ask it to summarize it for you. Again, it's really not that different from machine translation. We're just taking that state that represents the meaning of what you're feeding it, and turning around and translating that into something more concise. And machine translation itself, we've used that as an example throughout this course so far. So it's also good at translation between different languages, code, you know, Python, Java, whatever it is, they're just different languages really. So you can think of that as just another translation task. You know, being given a objective of what this code should do and translating that into actual code that might do it. Now, in my experience, even with the very best of the transformers that are out there, GPT four or whatever, sometimes it gets it wrong. but as long as you're diligent in testing it out and making sure that it's really doing what you asked it to do, it really can save you a lot of time. And also just generating text in general. So one application there would be automated customer service. You could, for example, fine tune a transformer based large language model on the past transcripts of your customer service calls and use that to generate a customer service. I. Now again, this sounds like a very appealing thing to a lot of companies, but we have to keep that. We have to use that with caution. Right. Your your AI, your transformer is going to be perfectly happy to say yes, I'll take care of that for you, or I'm sending you out a replacement package or we've got that taken care of. But if no one's actually acting on those things that it's saying, you're just going to end up with a lot of angry customers. And if you're not properly recognizing what those customers really want, if they're asking for something new that it's never been trained on before, you're also going to get angry, frustrated customers. So deploy these tools with care is my advice.

---

### Lecture: Generative Pre-Trained Transformers  How they Work, Part 1

So how do we get from this general idea of transformers with, you know, embeddings and self-attention and these feedforward neural networks to more specifically GPT, which is just generative pre-trained transformers? It is just a transformer, but a very specific architecture of one. Now, again, AWS is not tied to GPT. That's an OpenAI thing. OpenAI was funded by Microsoft, which has Microsoft Azure, which is a direct competitor to AWS. So you're not going to see a lot of cooperation between Amazon and GPT or GPT four or ChatGPT or anything like that. However, the exam, although it will probably not go into the level of detail we've gone into into how this stuff works does generally require some general knowledge as to how AI works and how machine works in general, so understanding how GPT works at a high level could still be beneficial for the exam. But more importantly, I think you're probably curious about how this stuff really works. So let's dive into it. Also, I should point out that GPT two and before that, and some offshoots of GPT two were actually open. I mean, OpenAI didn't become not open until recently. You know, they stopped releasing the details of their models only because they didn't want people copying them, really. But you can actually import GPT two into AWS because you can go get that through, say, Huggingface, for example. And we'll we'll look at that later on in an activity. So let's take a look at GPT two's architecture, because that's the last one where the details were actually revealed. And we know a few things about GPT 3.5 and GPT four. They are just basically evolutionary steps and making them much bigger and much greater scale. At the end of the day, the general ideas here are the same. So GPT is consisting only of decoder blocks. So earlier when we talked about transformers we showed an encoder stack. And that generated some sort of hidden state for each token and transfer that over in parallel to a decoder stack to do whatever we want it to do with that information, translate it, summarize it, generate text, classify things, whatever it may be, right? GPT is simpler, so it is nothing but decoders. And because everything is happening in parallel, you can get away with that. You know, you don't actually have to have separate encoder and decoder blocks, because we no longer have that bottleneck of a hidden state tied between them. Right? So this is actually a simpler and more efficient way of doing it. As an aside, Bert is another transformer model that came out a little bit earlier that consists only of encoders. And if you want an example of one that still uses encoders and decoders, T5 would be a model that does it that way. So let's take a look at what's going on here. Now keep in mind that there is no concept of input and output per se. We are just generating this huge block of vectors that come in and at the other end come out more vectors, and there is just this special token that it might encounter that says, hey, we should start processing whatever we're trying to do, you know, translate this thing in this example. So let's say that we're applying GPT for translation here, I'm going to feed in. Please translate me and then a token. That means go translate it, and the rest of these are going to be empty, because that's going to be space for this transformer to put its result in. But this all gets processed in parallel, right? Remember, self-attention works by in parallel computing all these relationships between the words and how they're positioned relative to each other. So there is no real concept of sending in an output of please translate me pushing it in and then waiting for the output on the other end. It's all it's all done at once. So what really happens is that we push in. Please translate me and a token out. The other end will come out. Please translate me token and then I right. And then we can pass it through again and say give me the next token. And that might say, please translate me token, I go home or whatever it is. Right. So all it's really doing is generating the next token over and over and over again. It doesn't really know per se if that's part of the input or the output. It's just generating the next logical token in this sequence repeatedly. That's all it does, people. Over and over again, we're feeding this vector in to get the next word, and then we feed it back through again with the next word, and we get the next word, and so on and so forth. So that attention mechanism is critical to maintaining those relationships between words or tokens. And you prompt it by giving it a head start with the tokens of your question, and then it just keeps on generating new tokens given the previous token repeatedly. All right. Now architecturally, what's going on here. So because we don't really have a concrete input or output, we're just feeding it this huge vector of tokens here. That's what allows us to train it on these unlabeled piles of text. So that's an important point here. You know, how do we actually go about training these things when we don't have a so-called correct response? Well, if you're just feeding it these huge blocks of text, you know, a Wikipedia article or an answer from Reddit it or, you know, a sentence from a book, for example, that is the correct answer, right? So because we're training it on how to generate the next token over and over again, we can do that with these sentences and say, okay, I'm just going to give you the first few words of this sentence. Did I correctly predict what the next word would have been? And by using that trick, we're able to train these systems without, you know, explicitly having to come back with without having to give it an explicit validation set. Right now, you can give it like your own validation set if you want to, but by default, you can just throw text at these things, and it will use that text as its own validation set as it goes. Right. So this allows it to ingest huge amounts of text and train on it all at once in parallel. And that's how it basically learns the language. So we're not optimizing this transformer on some specific task necessarily, like classify this thing into these three categories. The innards of this transformer are really learning the language itself and how to speak that language and how to interpret that language. And that's the key to just how creepily good this can be at mimicking human speech sometimes. Also, we're talking about hundreds of billions of parameters here. As we'll see, these decoder blocks really blow out into something huge. So they might be many thousands of vectors across, and they could be stacked hundreds of them on top of each other. And each individual one consists of both a feedforward neural network and a self-attention layer. Okay. So each decoder block consists of a self-attention layer that feeds into a feedforward neural network. And then we keep stacking these on top of each other further. So this decoder block will do self-attention on the input coming in. It will feed that to a huge neural network on top of it, and then feed that to another decoder block, which again computes its own self-attention on the previous block goes through another neural network. There's another one that does self-attention again. And by just stacking this up over and over and over again, we get an increasingly complex model and we can end up with hundreds of billions of parameters. And in the case of GPT four, it's rumored to be well over 1 trillion parameters that need to be learned. So think about the scale of learning that many parameters through training. It's a little bit mind blowing. Let's talk a little bit more about the input processing. So I've kind of glossed over this part of it here. So we start with our input tokens. Right. Please translate me. The next step is to translate those tokens into an embedding layer. So first of all we have a tokenization process that translates those words into numbers. Then we need to translate those tokens into embedding vectors where each token is in this huge dimensional space, where the distance between those vectors represents how similar tokens are to each other. We then do something called positional encoding to kind of bake in, where each token is relative to the other tokens. And again, since we're doing this in parallel, we don't really know at any given point where we are in the sentence. There's no concept of that here. So we need to somehow encode where the token is. So let's dive into more detail on how that all works. So let's talk about that input processing layer. The first thing we need to do is tokenization and encoding those tokens. So neural networks don't work on words. They work on numbers. All right. So the first thing we have to do is translate these words that we're trying to understand into numbers. And here's an example of it. The OpenAI website gives you a handy tool for visualizing that. So here's their example where they have many words mapped to one token but some don't. Indivisible. And you can see here that a lot of words do map to a single token. Each color represents an individual token that was generated. But the word indivisible was actually split into three different tokens. So endive and Isabelle. And the way that this works is just learned. You know, just like any other neural network has learned, the tokenizer is also trained over time to produce the most optimal tokens that just work the best for what we're trying to do. Uh, apostrophe T is its own token, so it knows that slash T means, you know, it's short for not or whatever, right? Also, punctuation tends to be its own token as well. It talks a little bit about how Unicode characters are encoded. That can also be multiple tokens. And this is also interesting. So if you have sequences of characters that are commonly found next to each other, they might group them together. So we might be able to say that if I see one, two, three, I don't need to encode that as individual tokens for one, two and three. One, two, three is its own token. Just because I see that as a repeated pattern during my training. So that's how tokenization works. We'll dive into a real example of that shortly. Next we have token embedding. Like I said, there's not a super easy way to visualize that, but the idea is that we're then converting those tokens into this vector in this multi-dimensional space and the space between those vectors, the distance between those vectors is correlated with the semantic meaning, the similarities between the meanings of those tokens. So two words that kind of mean the same thing, like potato and rhubarb, for example, would be closer together in this embedding space than, say, potato and Starship. Right. So the more similar they are to each other, the closer they'll be in that embedded space. It's hard to visualize because in practice we're talking about thousands of dimensions here. These vectors are thousands of values long, and you can't wrap your head around that. Sometimes people try to distill that down to 2 or 3 dimensions to kind of visualize it more. But the important thing is that these tokens are translated into vectors. The distance between these vectors represent the similarity between the tokens. And that's just a further way to optimize how well transformers and GPT works. Finally, we have positional encoding. So like I said repeatedly, we don't we're not processing this in sequence anymore. We've moved away from that. We're processing all of these tokens in parallel for any given next token that we're trying to generate. So we need to have some information as to where this word stands relative to other words in the sentence. And that's positional encoding. The trick here is that we use a sinusoidal function. And if you remember what a sine wave looks like, it has a period, right? It repeats over time. It goes up and down and up and down and up and down. So within a given period, like, say, 100 tokens or so, uh, you could infer from the sine wave where that token is relative to its neighbors. But for a really, really long sequence it would eventually repeat. But by that time, maybe things are so far apart that it doesn't matter. So it's a very useful trick for embedding for for encoding the position of a token relative to the tokens around it within a reasonable distance. Right. And it's one that scales out to any length of tokens as well. Now from an implementation standpoint, usually it's interleaved when you actually do this. So that's why you see these kind of bands in this visualization of the positional encoding. Um, we have both a sine wave and a cosine wave being embedded and alternating between different, um, different values here. And it's just been found through experimentation that that tends to work better for whatever reason. And we'll see that actually, uh, working in code up next.

---

### Lecture: Generative Pre-Trained Transformers  How they Work, Part 2

So we kind of glossed over the output stage as well. So if we zoom in on the top of our GPT architecture, it looks like this. So we have our final decoder block. And we fed in this giant vector at the bottom of tokens. And we want to get the next token in the sequence after the token. That means start generating stuff. So let's say we fed in while this course is and our job is to try to get the next token in that sequence and complete that sentence, what pops out of the other end is a vector at the end of the day. So it's an output vector that embeds the meaning of what we're trying to say next. What we do then is multiply that with our token embeddings matrix, and the result of that multiplication is another vector that gives us the probabilities of each token being the right next word in the sequence. So what we could do is just take the highest probability token and output that as the next result. And if you set the temperature setting of a GPT to zero, that's exactly what you would get. So with GPT and many other of these transformer models, you have a control called temperature. And that's just how much randomness is introduced in selecting the next token based on those probabilities. So with a temperature of zero I'll always pick the most probable one, but if I loosen things up a little bit, maybe there's a chance of picking something else. Maybe I try the, you know, incredible instead. Or challenging or hard if I really turned up the temperature there. So that's a dial you have for how much randomness there is, and it can prevent you from getting the same response every time, which sometimes is valuable. And sometimes you just want to get, uh, different responses just to try them out. Right. Sometimes you want to just get different ideas and generate new ideas and get as many new ideas as you can by running this repeatedly. And that's how you can do that. So that's what happens on the output end. So we've kind of walked through from beginning to end conceptually how GPT works. You know we start with these tokens. We tokenize them. We embed them into this embedding layer. We then do positional encoding, feed them into this giant stack of decoder blocks where each decoder block is doing masked self-attention and going into a giant feedforward neural network. We stack those on top of each other. Out the other end comes an output vector of what we want to represent For the next token, we multiply that back into the embedding matrix, and we get back probabilities for what the next token should be. That's it. That's how GPT works. So now you know how to build an AI.

---

### Lecture: LLM Key Terms and Controls (tokens, embeddings, temperature, etc.)

Just a few key terms associated with LMS, and some ways to tune their performance that you might need to know about. So review tokens is basically a numerical representation of words or parts of words that are going into a large learning model as you're training it or trying to feed it prompts or whatever it is. So fundamentally, computers need to deal with numbers, not words, right? So it's just a conversion step of words or parts of words into numerical tokens that our model can actually understand. So think of tokens as kind of being the same thing as words. They could technically be parts of words as well. Those tokens can then get converted to what we call embeddings. And these are mathematical representations or vectors more technically that encode sort of the meaning of a token. So whether your token represents a word in English or Spanish or some other language, it might map to the same embedding vector, because that sort of encodes what that word means. The way that works is that words that are similar in meaning tend to be close to each other within that multi-dimensional vector space, where those embeddings live. Not to get a little bit too tactical about it, but just think of embeddings as a vector representation of the meaning of each token, and more technically, how similar tokens are to each other in meaning. Now, there are a couple of ways of choosing the next word in a in a sentence when you're actually generating the output from an LLM like we talked about in the previous lecture. One is called top P, so you can have a threshold probability for a token being included in the final output. And the higher that value is, the more random the output will be. So basically as you have output coming out of your transformer, there will be some sort of a probability associated with each token. And if it's above this probability threshold, that means that it's a candidate for being chosen as the next word in the sentence that's being generated. Another way of doing it is top k, and instead of having a probability threshold, we just say we're going to select k number of candidates no matter what. So k could be two, three, 4 or 5 whatever it is. So obviously the higher number for k the more random the results will be because you have more choices to choose from for those tokens that represent the next word in a sentence. Now, how do I choose between the candidates that made it through top P or top K? Well, that's where temperature comes in. So temperature is just how random the choice is in selecting the next word from those set of tokens that were output candidates. A high temperature of 1.0 would mean very random results, and a low temperature would mean consistent results. So temperature is just another dial for controlling the consistency or randomness or creativity, if you want to think of it that way of the output of your LLM. There's also the context window, and that is the number of tokens an LLM can process at once. So how many words surrounding a word can it look at for contextual information. How far out is it looking for that self-attention mechanism. Right. So again you know, the meaning of a word might depend on the words that are around it. And the context window defines how many words around it can we look at. There's also the maximum number of tokens, which is an upper limit for the total number of tokens, either on the input or the output side of your LLM.

---

### Lecture: Fine-Tuning and Transfer Learning with Transformers

So I also want to talk about transfer learning. With Transformers. We generally call this fine tuning and it's a very exciting prospect. So you can just use a pre-trained GPT model or any other transformer model as a starting point, you know, as a sort of base representation of how the language works. So I could use GPT three for llama, whatever it is, and just use that as the foundation that I'm building upon. Right. So that can be the big giant model that tells me how to speak English or how to speak French, or how to speak Python. Right. And then I can further train that with a specific set of training data to fine tune this network for a very specific task. And that is that opens up this whole new world of applications. So there's a few ways of doing it. One is to just feed your new training data through the whole thing from the bottom to the top. Right. Um. That works. Another way is to freeze specific layers and retrain just the top few layers. That's another way of doing it. So that would be one way of training a new tokenizer, for example, to learn a new language, you could just freeze the layers below it and retrain the tokenization step. Or you can add a new layer on top of the pre-trained model that forces it to do something else. And sometimes all you need are just a few and a few examples of prompts and desire completions to figure out how to tune it. So, for example, um, you know, I could adjust the tone or the personality, if you will, of this thing by giving it examples of someone who always gives snarky responses or sarcastic responses if I wanted to, or someone who's just always overly happy. Right. Um, or I could adapt it to entirely different tasks. Entirely. Right. So I could take a language model and adapt it to classification by just saying. Here's some examples of doing that. If somebody says, wow, I love this course, that's a positive sentiment. And just by having another layer on top of this transformer model, I can train it how to take those, um, final representations and translate it into a classification that I want. But there's more to it than that, right? Like, you could also do things like train it on all of your past emails and your responses to them. Right. And you could then train your transformer on how to respond to emails, just like you would. I could train it with the scripts of a movie and train it how to act just like my favorite character in that movie all the time. I can bring that character to life, if you will. I actually did that once. I trained an OpenAI model based on all the scripts of Star Trek The Next Generation, and I made my own actual AI version of data who is a fictional AI? So there's some mind blowing stuff right there. Or you could train it on, uh, customer service transcripts. Right. And fine tune your model to really know how to return responses that are relevant to your own organization based on how people have actually responded to real customer service inquiries in the past. So fine tuning is a very powerful way of taking these large pre-trained models and fine tuning them to the application that you actually need.

---

### Lecture: Lab  Tokenization and Positional Encoding with SageMaker Notebooks

So just to see some of this stuff in action, let's go on over to the AWS Management Console and spin up a SageMaker notebook, shall we? So let's head on over to Amazon SageMaker. And a couple of ways to do this. There's a new thing called Studio Lab. It's brand new as of this recording. But right now they don't really have a whole lot of hardware associated with it. It's basically Amazon's answer to Google Colab, where it's a free environment for experimentation. But the last time I tried it, first you had to, like, go through this whole, uh, application process to get access. And when I did get access, there wasn't any actual hardware available. So let's do this the the old fashioned way. Uh, we're going to go to notebook and notebook instances. This is not free by the way, but it will not cost too much because we're going to stick with a very inexpensive instance. For this. Let's create a notebook instance and we'll give it a name. How about Transformers. And let's stick with the T3 medium. That's a pretty cheap instance type, but do remember to shut this down when you're not using it though. It will sit there and rack up charges for as long as it's running, which you probably don't want. All right, the defaults here should more or less be okay. We're going to go ahead with the default permissions and encryption. All this other stuff is optional. Let's just go ahead and kick it off. We are spinning this up with Amazon Linux two and JupyterLab three. That should do the job. And now we just need to wait for that to become available. So we'll come back when that's done. All right. We're back after about five minutes. That is now in service. So let's go ahead and click on my Transformers notebook instance. And we can see that it's ready to go. Let's go ahead and open Jupyter. And we'll just wait to get redirected here. And we have a nice shiny new notebook here. So let's go ahead and import one from your course materials that will walk through some of the Transformers concepts that we've been talking about here. So I'm just going to hit the upload button here and navigate to where I downloaded the course materials. And from there let's select the Transformers ML course SageMaker Ipynb file and hit upload. And now we can click on it and start playing. Now since this is running on just a little CPU instance here, we're not going to be able to do any massive training, but we can use Transformers and break down some of the parts of it. So first of all, let's start off by installing what we need. We're going to be installing the Transformers package from Hugging Face. So let's briefly talk about what hugging face is. It's Huggingface Co by the way not calm. Don't get that confused. It's basically a giant repository of pre-trained models you can use. And they have a lot of transformer models as well, including things like GPT two and Gpt-j. Also, llama is available for you. Stable diffusion. They're all just sitting there waiting for you to play with. So, you know, you can actually work with these massive, large language models your own on your own and train them and fine tune them and use them however you want to, which is pretty darn cool. And it's also free, which is even cooler, you know, if you want to be able to save your models and offer them to other people, then you will need an account. But if you're just using it to mess around, it's totally free. So yay! And it's also free to import their Transformers package for Jupyter notebooks and allow us to play around with it there. It's also not just a repository. There's also a lot of good learning resources here as well, by the way. So when you go into the documentation for a given model, let's click on llama to be here. It tells you all sorts of stuff about it. And they also have a lot of learning resources. If you go to docs. You can learn all about Transformers here. And they even have a lot of tutorials and some of them are even video tutorials. So if you do want to dive deeper. Hugging face is a great resource. Back to our notebook though. Let's go ahead and shift enter to install the Transformers package itself. Note that I'm actually installing this from source from GitHub. That's because if you want to actually do fine tuning, you do need that source version installed. Otherwise you can just say pip install transformers for the stuff that we're going to be doing in this particular exercise. But let's go ahead and do this. Uh, from source here. It doesn't take too long. And it's automatically getting all the dependencies for that and installing it. Just wait for that to finish and we're done there. Now we're also going to install a bunch of other packages here JupyterLab, Ipywidgets, viz, Xformers, evaluate, and matplotlib. That's so we can actually visualize what's going on inside of this transformer. So let's go ahead and take care of that. Again, it will take a little bit of time for this all to install. All right. That took a few minutes but it finally finished up. And let's take a look at what it did here. We installed everything we asked for and it also installed PyTorch. Just a little note there. We're actually using the PyTorch framework and not TensorFlow and Keras here. PyTorch is become a little bit more trendy these days I think. All right. So now we're ready to rock and roll. We're going to import the Bert model and Bert tokenizer packages from the Transformers package from Hugging Face. And it's just that easy. Now Bert is a transformer that's built entirely on encoders, as opposed to GPT, which is built entirely on decoders. So a little bit of a different way of going about things that the transformer architecture level. But we're just going to be talking about tokenization and attention right now. And that works the same way no matter what kind of transformer we're talking about. So let's just load this up because I happen to have good visualization tools available for Bert. Let's kick that off. And that's going to go off to hugging face and import the models for Bert and also the tokenizer for Bert, so we can play with that directly. Down it comes and we're done. All right. So now we can take a look at an example of tokenization of a real phrase here. So back from our slides we had the example of I read a good novel where novel might mean a couple of different things, right, depending on the context. So the first step is to tokenize that our transformer model can't deal with words. It can only deal with numbers. So we first need to translate that sentence into a series of numbers that are numerical model can do stuff with. So let's see what that looks like. And you can see that it actually took I read a good novel and broke it up into these different tokens. I read a good novel. Notice that there are more tokens than there are words here. First of all, we're seeing 101 and 102 at the beginning and end here. Presumably that's those are special tokens that say, I'm starting to say something and I'm done saying something in between. I read a good novel. We still have one extra one. Remember that a word can consist of more than one token, so that's not too atypical to have more tokens than words. You know, we tend to use the phrases tokens and words interchangeably sometimes, but they really aren't interchangeable. A word can consist of more than one token, and we can also see the attention mask here that's built up for it as well. When we talked about attention and self-attention, there was this concept of using a mask to make sure that we're not looking ahead of ourselves, right, that we're only basing the attention on what we've seen so far up to that point. And attention masks is one way of doing that. So we can convert that back and see what those tokens really are by saying convert IDs to tokens. So I'm going to take back that list of tokens and convert them back to words. And you can see here that beginning CLS token special token and a Sep token at the end, like we said, there are special tokens to sort of indicate different events in the stream of texts. So I'm starting to say something. I'm done saying something. Maybe you should go and generate some text now. Right. And it turns out that the period is where that extra token came from. I read a good novel each to correspond to individual token IDs, but that period at the end is also its own token as well. So in this case, it's pretty straightforward. I'll talk a little bit about positional encoding as well here. So just a way to visualize what's going on here. So remember that when we're feeding stuff into a transformer we're not doing it one word at a time like we would have done with a recurrent neural network. It's actually processing everything in parallel. So how does the thing know where these words are in relation to each other within a sentence? Well, that's where positional encoding comes into play. Right. So we can see here that we're going to build up our own encode positions function here and do it from scratch just to visualize what that might look like. And we're actually overlaying a sine wave function and a cosine wave function within this matrix. And interleaving the two. This is how it's actually recommended to be implemented within the papers. So what does that look like? So the idea here is that because we're basing it on a sinusoidal wave and a cosine wave, these things just go on forever, right? There's no end to a sine wave. It just stretches on and on and on. And by looking at where we are within that sine wave, within one period of it, we can get an idea of where this word sits relative to the other words, at least within that period. So it's scalable. It's not, you know, entirely precise because it won't tell you where something is in a much longer sentence necessarily, but it works. So let's build up that positional matrix here. And again, all we're doing is saying that for a given position within a sentence, we're going to encode that as a sine wave and a cosine wave being interleaved together in this positional matrix. Now we can visualize that just using matplotlib. And we can see that it looks like this image here. So you can kind of see those sine and cosine waves working their way through there. If you sort of envision this going down further and coming back up later on, it would eventually repeat. But you can see for this particular sequence going up to, you know, say around 100 tokens or so, it does encode some information about where those tokens lie relative to other tokens, and it just works out better for the math for this to be interleaved with a cosine wave as well. All right. So that's positional encoding in a nutshell kind of a way to visualize it. Now if you do want to take a little break from the course here, I would remind you to go back to SageMaker and stop this notebook instance. If you're not going to be using it for a while. If you are going to plow through this section and keep on going, then by all means keep it up and running. But if you are going to stop, be sure to stop this notebook instance. Otherwise you will continue to be charged for it until you do stop it. Um, I don't want you to get a big surprise on your AWS bill at the end of the month, so do remember to stop this when you're not using it.

---

### Lecture: Lab  Multi-Headed, Masked Self-Attention in SageMaker

All right, back to our Transformers notebook here. Start it back up if you need to. Let's go and turn our attention to self-attention, shall we? So we're going to go down to the self-attention block of our notebook here. And from Bert Vis we're going to import some, some packages to allow us to visualize how attention actually works. So we're going to import Bert model and Bert tokenizer from Bert vis transformers neuron view, as well as the show function from Bert vs neuron view. And this will allow us to train a Bert transformer based on our own text here, and actually visualize what those self-attention layers look like and how they're connected. So let's go ahead and kick this off. We can see here that we're actually importing a pre-trained model. And that's the power of hugging face there. We can just import a working Bert model and use it. And that's what we're going to do here. So once it's done importing that it's going to create this visualization of the attention layer. And there we have it. So we're feeding in the word the phrase I read a good novel. Okay, so this is novel in the sense of a book as opposed to something unique, right? So if we go ahead and take a look here at the the uppermost attention head, we can see when we click on novel here or just hover over novel, that it does have a pretty tight connection to the word read, right? So that implies that it's getting a lot of context from the word read to say. By novel, I mean a book. And we can open that up and actually look at the underlying query key and value matrices for that as well. Not that it really means a whole lot to us, but it is sort of reinforcing that that is indeed how self-attention works. We have the query, we have the key, we have the value. Take the dot product, do a softmax, and you end up with a representation of that token that has more meaning attached to it. Let's do the same thing with this other phrase. Attention is a novel idea where we're using the word novel in another sense. So if we kick that off we can see in this case, novel is tied very strongly to the word idea. Also a little bit to the to the word attention. But through that relationship, it can figure out that by novel here we mean unique and not a book. So we can encode that further into a representation of the token novel into something that has more meaning attached to its meaning in this context. So that's self-attention in action there. Also, I want to recommend this little link here from the Hugging Face website. It's called expert that also lets you visualize the stuff on the web without even needing a notebook, and it shows you even more information, which is kind of interesting. So we could type in here again, I read a good novel and update the visualization here, and we see a very similar thing here. If we go to the the top attention layer here. Uh, novel is tied to the word read more strongly than any other word. But also what's interesting here is the would predict here box that pops up, right? So here it says novel is the top prediction for the token when we're done. But number two is book. So that implies that self-attention has figured out that by novel we mean book here. Let's try the other phrase. Um, attention is a novel idea. And now, first of all, we can see that the word attention got broken up into three different tokens, which is interesting. And if we click on novel, let's go to the. Yeah, we're still on the top layer there. It's actually saying that new is the word that would predict predict for that. So self-attention has figured out that in this context, the word novel means something new and not a book. That's pretty cool. This is kind of the key to how these large language models work these days. So pretty neat to see it in action again, be sure to shut this notebook down if you're not going to continue using it. I don't want you to keep racking up charges for this thing, and you will continue to rack up charges as long as that Jupyter notebook is open. So a little housekeeping there. Stop it if you're not going to keep using it.

---

### Lecture: Lab  Using GPT within a SageMaker Notebook

All right, moving on with our Jupyter notebook here. Again, if you need to spin that up, you know, go ahead and start that back up if you need to. And this is going to be a real quick. We're going to just show how we can import a pre-trained model from hugging face. And again, hugging face is just a big Ole repository of trained models that you can just use. And I just want to show you how easy it is to do. And this isn't specific to Amazon or SageMaker. You can do this from basically any environment that you want. So we're going to say from Transformers remember that's the Transformers package from hugging Face I'm importing pipeline, which is again a way that hugging face has made it even easier to use these pre-trained models. So I don't need to build a bunch of stuff surrounding these transformers to use them. I can just say I'm going to build a pipeline that is for the purpose of generating text using the GPT two model under the hood, which you know, is actually publicly available. And then all I have to do is feed it in some words, tell it the maximum length that I want to generate, how many variations I want to get back, and it will just go do it. So in literally three lines of code here, I can load up a large language model and use it to generate new texts. Let's go ahead and kick that off and see it in action. Now it's going to have to download all of the weights and biases associated with that model here from hugging face. Hopefully I have enough disk space on this notebook instance to do that. Looks like we're okay. And sure enough we got some generated text back. So some possible completions from I read a good novel. I don't need a story, but I don't have this much money to give away. You know, five different ways of continuing that sentence, basically, that are consistent with the underlying language model that we're working with. Let's try it again. Let's increase the maximum length to 300 tokens. And we'll give it a sentence like this movie seemed really long and I used that because, you know, if we wanted to, we could fine tune this model. For example, using the IMDb Movie Reviews data set and get more interesting responses about movies. So in this case, we're using the existing pipeline that we defined before. We don't have to go and redownload that. It's just going off and actually generating that text at this point. And it did have to chew on that a little bit longer because we asked for more output. But you can see that it completed that sentence. This movie seemed really long with some other stuff that it made up. So it just basically made up some details about a long movie. Right. Um, which is a good reminder that these large language models, all they do is make stuff up, right? They're good at sounding authoritative and sounding like a human, but by and large it's just making things up at the end of the day. So I didn't give it any information about what movie I was talking about. It went and made stuff up. Some very specific stuff, by the way, so people tend to forget sometimes at least end users, that the purpose, the way that these things work is not based on finding truth, right? It's just based on generating language that is consistent with the language it was trained on, and it does a really good job of that. One more, because we always talk about Star Trek in my courses, so let's just see what it does with the word Star Trek. And I'll ask it for five variations of that with a max length of 100 tokens each time. And that came back pretty quickly. So based on the data it was trained on, it's kind of just giving me stuff from Wikipedia, right? So you can tell that a source of the training data for GPT two was Wikipedia. It doesn't have a lot a lot of information about the specific series and movies there. So it's just giving me sort of general information about them. Now, I could change that by again training it on IMDb Movie Reviews, which will tell it more about these shows. But we'll talk about how to do that a little bit later when we go into actually using foundation models in SageMaker. So stay tuned. Again, remember to stop this notebook when you're done with it. Otherwise you will continue to be charged forever. And I don't want that to happen to you. So stop it when you're done.

---

### Lecture: AWS Foundation Models and SageMaker JumpStart with Generative AI

All right. So we've talked in general terms how transformers work and specifically how GPT works. But how does this all fit into AWS. So AWS offers something called foundation models. What do we mean by a foundation model. Well, these are the giant pre-trained transformer models that we're going to fine tune for specific tasks. So we can take something like a pre-trained GPT or pre-trained Bert or pre-trained llama, whatever it is model that understands, again, the foundations of how a language works, and then build upon that fine tune it for a specific application. Some examples of foundation models are the GPT series. And like we said, GPT is owned by OpenAI, which is heavily funded by Microsoft, which has its own web service product called Azure. So you're not going to see OpenAI cooperating with AWS anytime soon, I don't think. They're not going to offer that. Now, there were earlier GPT models, like I said, like GPT two or offshoots of it, like GPT J, that are open source and available that they can give you. But the latest and greatest stuff from OpenAI. Probably not going to find that on AWS. Similarly, Bert is an older transformer model built on encoders instead of decoders that was created by Google. Google also has its own cloud platform. They're not going to be cooperating with AWS anytime soon either. Dall-E if you're looking for image generation, that's also made by OpenAI, which is also funded by Microsoft, which is another direct competitor for AWS. Not going to find that either, however. There's also meta, who's been developing their own foundation models as well. So their text generation foundation model is called llama. It's actually quite good. And it turns out Facebook does not have its own web services platform. So they're not in direct competition with AWS. So you will find Meta's models offered on AWS. They also have an image generation foundation model as well called segment anything. So if you want to use that instead of Dall-E, you can. And in my personal experience it's actually better. So these are all examples of foundation models. Some of them you will find on AWS. Some of them you won't find. So where's Amazon? Why don't they have their own models. And you know, frankly they're late to the party here. Um, they're quick to point out that they've been using Transformers and generative AI internally for a long time. Um, I don't know, maybe they have been and they've just been keeping it to themselves, but, um, they are a little bit late to the party here. They do, however, offer a suite of foundation models, um, that are sourced from others and also from themselves. So what they've done is taken the approach of being an aggregator of foundation models and getting them all in one place for you so you can use them. It's really not that different from hugging face, right? So that's kind of hugging faces entire reason of existence as well. They've assembled all these pre-trained foundation models you can build on top of similar idea here. With AWS Foundation models, they only offer a few right now what's called Jurassic two by a company called 21 labs. Uh, this is for text generation, and its strength is in, uh, being multilingual so it can speak Spanish, French, German, Portuguese, Italian or Dutch right now. They also have something called Claude from a company called anthropic. These are large learning models used for conversations. It's also good for question answering and workflow automation. They also offer something called stable diffusion from stability AI. This is again a image generation foundation model that can make images, arts, logos or designs for you automatically. And finally, they have their own offering called Amazon Titan. Again, it's early days, but this is their more general purpose text generation Foundation model LM, if you will. It can summarize text, it can generate text, it can answer questions. And it also gives you embeddings. So you can just use it for computing the similarities between tokens or phrases or words and use that to do things like personalization or search. So remember an embedding layer is just converting something into a big vector, right? And by computing how close vectors are to each other, you can compute how similar they are to each other. So the personalization aspect would be I have an embedding that represents some thing. What are other things similar to that thing that I might recommend to people who like the first thing, right. Or for search, I can take the embedding of my search query and see what other things are close to that search query in the embedding space, and that would give me a reasonable list of results. So just the embeddings API itself can be a powerful thing even without the text summarization or the the language modeling part of it. And how do I use these things? So SageMaker has something called Jumpstart where you can very quickly launch off a new notebook that comes pre-populated with some examples on how to do something. So Jumpstart now has something called Foundation Models, where you can select one of these foundation models and kick off a pre-populated notebook that lets you play around with it so that notebook will walk you through. How do I load up this model? How do I feed data to it? How do I query it? What kind of things can I do with it? How do I fine tune it? How do I shut it down? Right? So if you go there, you'll see a huge list of models that are from hugging Face. So they've actually gone out and worked with hugging face and integrated a lot of the models most popular models there into SageMaker Jumpstart as well as Foundation models. So in addition to the ones that Amazon is offering exclusively, we also have the entire hugging face ecosystem as well. And if you've never seen Hugging Face before, it's just a website that's an aggregation of a bunch of pre-trained models out there that you can use to, to build off of and very quickly use. So this lets you very quickly open up a notebook with a given model loaded up and ready to go. And right now, in addition to hugging face models which include things like Falcon Flon, bloom Z and GPT J, also GPT twos in there. It also gives you access to stable diffusion for image generation. And also Amazon Alexa has a model in there as well that is an encoder decoder based, multilingual large learning model. So if you want to use a large language model that's at least being labeled as Alexa, I'm not sure if that's what they're really using under the hood. Um, that's also available to you now as well. So. So SageMaker jumpstart with generative AI just refers to the ability to jumpstart a SageMaker notebook with one of these pre-trained models baked into it already to play with. And we'll dive into an example of that now.

---

### Lecture: Lab  Using Amazon SageMaker JumpStart with Huggingface

All right, let's play around with SageMaker Foundation models just to get your feet wet or your hands dirty. Whatever metaphor you want to use for getting familiar with SageMaker and using AI within it. Now I've gone to SageMaker AI, Amazon SageMaker AI from the console here. That's where we're going to start from. And under Jumpstart, you should find foundation models, computer vision models, and neural language processing models. Foundation models are where the hotness is. So let's click on that and see what they got. Now, before we dive in, I do want to warn you that what we're about to do costs real money. We're going to be spinning up some rather expensive instances to play around with this. And if we're only going to run it for like an hour or so, it's probably not too bad. But there is a very real possibility that you will forget to shut something down or not shut things down completely, and you could end up with a very nasty surprise at the end of the month. If that's the case, you could find yourself running up a bill of thousands of dollars if you don't follow along. Exactly. So you have been warned. My recommendation would be just to watch me here and do not follow along hands on because you are taking on a very real risk. Some people get upset with me for saying that all the time, but believe me, you'd be a lot more upset if you had a bill for thousands of dollars that you weren't expecting just for following along in this course. That said, let's take a look at what they have to offer here. Obviously, this list is going to change over time as Amazon adds more and more models, but you can see they've got a pretty good selection here for image generation. They have stable diffusion. They have metas latest models here which are quite good. They have Jurassic two uh, some I haven't heard of before like light on mini instruct. Interesting. And, uh, some more llama models from meta. Uh, I 21 also some stuff from them. Jurassic two. That's an oldie but goodie. Uh, cohere. And what else? I'm going to skip past Falcon because we're going to come back to that. But you're seeing here a lot of models also from hugging face. And that's kind of the de facto repository for other more academic models or research models. So that is also cool to see more meta models here. And you can see there's a pretty long list, a pretty good selection here to choose from. Right. So I'm going to stick with a hugging face model just because they're cheap. And let's go ahead and select Falcon P-40b instruct BF 16. That's a text generation model. It's not a bad 140 billion parameters. That's a lot. It is a decoder only model just like GPT, and it is freely available under the Apache 2.0 license. So let's try that. Now. Obviously you could also run Falcon P-40b or any hugging face model from within Google Colab or something, and it would probably be faster and a lot cheaper. However, you are, you know, paying for the flexibility and control that AWS gives you and the ability to to run this within your AWS resources. To get started, let's click on View model. And from here we can get some more information about the model itself. That's basically what it said on the homepage there. It also has a link to the model card, which gives you additional information from the Hugging Face website. And there's that. So you can see here just some more information about what it's good for. Um may not be ideal for further fine tuning, so it is possible to fine tune this model, but however, this isn't probably your best choice for it. Good to know. Also, some advice here on smaller, less expensive models. Uh, Falcon seven B instruct. So good stuff here. And also some little sample code here for getting started. So good resources there. Close out of that. And let's go ahead and click on Open Model in Studio and see if we can play around with it. However we don't have a SageMaker domain yet so that's going to be the first step. Let's go ahead and click on create a SageMaker domain. If you don't have one already. A SageMaker domain again is just sort of this, uh, meta environment, if you will, for all of your SageMaker stuff within your account. So it's basically storage space that's shared amongst your users and also a repository for high level configuration information and user level information. Now you can go with a quick setup here for a single user. That's all I'm going to do because we are just playing around. That meets my needs. But if you did need to do something a little bit more fancy, you could instead say, set up for organizations and give yourself more control and more options that way. So if you need specific security settings, specific access to specific tools within SageMaker studio, advanced network security, data encryption, things like that, you can do that. But I'm just playing around. So I'm going to stick with setup for single user, and I can expand that out to additional options as well there if I want to, but I don't. So I'm just going to hit hit set up here and let's see what it guides us through. All right. So this is a lot easier than it would normally be. So you know usually when you set up a SageMaker domain you do need to set up those user profiles explicitly and whatnot. So you can see that it does take some time to set up that default domain. So I'm going to give it that time and I will come back when it is done. All right. So after a five minutes or so that finished and we now have a default domain with some default settings. It did prompt me earlier to choose a username, so we'll take care of that at a minimum. So anyway, let's walk through what's underneath this domain because it might be informative. So you can see that it gave us a default name of quick setup domain, whatever it is. Today's date. Um we have some default permissions set up. Um, some default roles and some default, uh, a default VPC and subnets as well that were created for us. So that saves us a whole lot of grief. You can also see that it's set up a default user profile as well. While we're waiting for that to finish setting up, let's take a tour through the other domain details here. Space management. So you can also set up a shared space here if you want to be able to share resources among other users in your domain. So by default we set up this one default user. But we could have more than one user in our account if we wanted to do that. So each user would have their own individual space. But you can also share space between them as well. And that's a place where you can put notebooks and other resources that they can all work on together within a communal IDE, and all using a shared EFS directory as well. So that could come in handy if you're working on a larger team, but again, this is a quick setup just intended for a single user, so we're not doing that right now. There's also various app configurations. Again, like I said, there's various configuration data associated with the domain level. For example for Q developer for Docker settings SageMaker studio at a high level. So these are all settings that have been set to a reasonable default for us. Also for SageMaker, canvas, Jupyter and the code editor. All this other stuff. So these are all the settings that are associated at the domain level. We also have some environment settings here that you can set up if you want to. We don't need any for what we're doing. And finally any specific resources associated with our domain. So always important to keep an eye on this. So you know what is running under SageMaker. Because typically the resources under SageMaker are on some pretty expensive hardware instance types. So you definitely want to check in here and make sure nothing's running that you don't expect. Right now there is nothing running, which is good because I haven't actually spun up my notebook yet. Let's go back to user profiles Still spinning. Let's refresh this page. That's better. It's not really still spinning. Now we can click on that and get more details. I said I could change the name, but I actually can't. If you were to hit edit on this, the name is not something you can change after the fact, so that's okay. I'll live with it. I'll, uh, I'll just call myself default 2025 0407 T14 2663 from now on. Cool. So let's go back to the domain here. And what I'm going to do is go back to that user profile and click on launch. And I'm going to launch a SageMaker studio instance. Uh, no, no tour yet. But if you wanted to, you could, of course. All right. So I have SageMaker studio up and running. Let's go back to that model and, uh, get back to where we started from here. So again, I'm under SageMaker AI Foundation models, and we were trying to launch Falcon 40 and struct bf16. Let's click on view Model again to get back to that. And again try to open it in studio. So we're going to select our default user profile and open studio. All right that brings us to this page here. And let's go to notebooks. And here is a sample notebook that we can play around with. Now what we have here is just a read only preview. If I want to actually run this I can open it in JupyterLab. So let's do that. All right. So let's create a new space because we don't have one already. And give it a name. I don't know whatever you want. Sundog playground. How about that? Create space and open notebook. And that will take time. So I'll come back when that's ready. All right. As promised, it took about five minutes. So let's go ahead and open JupyterLab. Now, if I wanted to actually run this, I could. Now. However, I actually can't. And the reason why is because once you get down to actually deploying this model, it's going to try to deploy a machine learning extra large 48 x instance type, which it costs a ridiculous amount of money. And that is the default for this model just for inference, which is kind of crazy, and it actually won't allow me to do that. I've tried this earlier and it gave me a resource limit error, because in order to use that sort of hardware, you actually need to reach out to AWS and ask permission for it because it is that expensive. So I'm just going to walk through kind of what this would do if I had infinite money, which I don't. So basically, all we need to do to use this model is to import Jumpstart model. From SageMaker Jumpstart model, we select the model ID, and if we want a specific version of that model, we can specify it. We're just going to use a wild card though, which says, you know, use the latest one, whatever it is, the ID for the specific model is hugging face LM Falcon 40 B and struct Bf 16. It could be any other jumpstart foundation model that was listed there as well, and that would also work. I changed except Eula to true here, which is just used to accept all the legalese stuff there, and then we deploy the model, and to do that we just create a new Jumpstart model instance there with the model ID and version that I specified above. And then we call deploy. That's the point where I'm going to run out of resources. So again that's where the real money starts adding up. All right. So then to use it all we need to do is call model dot retrieve all examples. It turns out there's a list of example prompts you can give to this model just to see what it can do. You know, answering questions, sentiment analysis, things like that. And it will iterate through all of those example payloads and print out the input and output from that large language model. And there are some notes here on some things you can specify, for example, a random seed if you want to get more consistent results. The temperature also controls the randomness in the output. Top k. Top E also used for controlling just how random those results are. And also we can specify some parameters like the stop token that's used, and that's very useful for making sure that it doesn't just keep on going and talking forever. And when we're done, of course we need to call predictor dot delete predictor. Because again this is an incredibly expensive hardware. And you definitely would not want to leave that running. But hey, you don't have to worry about it because odds are your account isn't enabled for it anyway. On the off chance that you're doing this from a corporate account that actually does have access to that kind of hardware. Please do not actually run this, or you're going to get in a lot of trouble with your boss. All right, so now that I'm done, I'm going to go to file and say log out. What why do I need to reload the site for that? Okay, whatever. Um, so we are not done cleaning up, though, you know, we did shut down that specific notebook, but there's a ton of resources associated with this domain. And if we leave it running, we're going to be racking up a bill for the whole time, and it's kind of hard to find some of these resources. So our ultimate goal here is to delete this entire domain so we can be sure. Let's start with the resources tab and see what's going on here. And you had to give that a minute to populate. So you can see that we do still have a Sundog Playground JupyterLab application running here using up an Mlt3 medium instance type. And if I didn't know about that, I would have just left that running and got a big bill at the end of the month. So let's go ahead and shut that down. First of all, I'll select that and say stop. And let's go ahead. And it says it's stopping right now. So I'm going to trust that that's going to do what it needs to do. But we're just getting started here folks. We also created that shared space for the notebook as well. If you as you recall. So again these shared spaces are so you can actually share that notebook across multiple users in your domain if you had them. And we did create one in the process of spinning up that notebook. However that is also using resources. So we need to delete that too. If we want to make sure we're not getting any unexpected bills. Go ahead and delete that. I have to say yes, I'm sure. Obviously, you need to be careful about this in the real world, because you could be blowing away a lot of people's work by doing this. And that is deleting. And finally, I need to delete my user profile before I can delete the domain. Let's go ahead and click on that default name. And from here I can say delete. Yes I'm sure. All right. And even though it says it's spinning up here, it says it did delete successfully. Finally I need to delete the domain itself. So under domain settings they kind of hid this. You got to scroll down a little bit and say delete domain. Yes. And delete. And let's make sure that actually happens. So this says it's going to take a few minutes. So I am going to hang out for a few minutes and make sure it really does that. This will not update on its own, by the way. So you do need to refresh this page once in a while to make sure that it really deleted. And again, you want to make sure you're not running up any resources that you're not aware of, or you're going to get a very nasty bill at the end of the month. So the moral of the story is SageMaker can be really expensive. And we saw that it wouldn't even let us try to run that specific inference on that model from hugging face. It's not even a big model, you know. But even though I didn't actually spin up that massive instance type that it wanted for that foundation model, it also spun up a lot of resources under the hood that you might not be aware of. So again, you just have to be super careful with SageMaker because it is notorious for running up large bills. However, we did learn how to peruse the foundation models that are available under SageMaker Jumpstart, how to actually launch a SageMaker domain, and how to launch a notebook within that domain, and all the resources that go along with it. So I hope that was useful. And kind of seeing how SageMaker domains and foundation models in Jumpstart actually work.
---

*Section 7 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*