<!-- Section 5 of 13 | Course: aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01 -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 5 OF 13: SageMaker Built-In Algorithms
**Course:** `aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01`

---
### Lecture: Intro  SageMaker Built-In Algorithms

Guess who's back? It's me. Frank. Just like there's a lot of managed AI services you can use from AWS that just work out of the box. SageMaker also has a lot of built in models and algorithms you can use. Now, for most common machine learning applications, you can just use an existing model from SageMaker rather than trying to package up your own container from scratch. It can be a real time saver whether you want to throw XGBoost at a problem which, by the way, is almost always a good idea, or do something more involved with image recognition, NLP, or clustering, there's an algorithm for you. Now, before we go through the laundry list of available algorithms, we'll spend a little bit more time on the basics of SageMaker itself to provide a little more context. So let's go discover how SageMaker can run common machine learning workloads at scale without reinventing the wheel in the process.

---

### Lecture: Introducing Amazon SageMaker

By far the service that comes up the most on the exam is Amazon SageMaker. SageMaker is basically the heart of Amazon's machine learning offering, so we're going to spend a lot of time on it. Let's start at a high level. So what is SageMaker for? Well it's intended to manage the entire machine learning workflow. So ideally this is what your process looks like in the real world. You start off by fetching and cleaning and preparing some training data and doing all your feature engineering on it. And then you feed that into a model that is trained on that data, and you can evaluate that model and say, okay, it looks good. Let's go ahead and deploy that model, actually use it in production to actually make inferences on observations that we haven't seen before. Now, once that's in production, we can learn from those results, see how well it's actually doing, and gather even more information. Use that to fetch, clean and prepare even more data, and maybe use those learnings to do a better job of feature engineering. Then the cycle begins again. We'll take that new data, train our model again, deploy it again, take in more data, train the model again, deploy it again, and hopefully things just keep getting better and better and better over time. SageMaker allows you to manage all of this stuff, so it will spin up training instances to make your training happen at large scale. It gives you notebooks where you can actually do your data preparation, and it will actually spin up instances in EC2 to actually deploy your model and sit there as an endpoint, waiting to make inferences in production. Architecturally, this is the idea. So let's start at the bottom here. When we're doing our training, our training data that we've already prepared will be sitting in an S3 bucket somewhere. And Sagemaker's job is to go out there and provision a bunch of training hosts to actually do that training on. Now, the code that it uses, the actual model itself, comes from a Docker image that's registered in Elastic Container Registry. So it will take that training code from a Docker image, deploy that out to a fleet of hosts to actually do that training and get that training data from S3. When it's done, it will save that trained model and any artifacts from it also to S3. At this point, we're ready to deploy that model and actually put it out there in production, right. So at this point we're also going to have some Docker image in ECR. That's the inference code. It's a potentially a lot simpler. It's only job is to take in incoming requests and use that saved model to actually make inferences based on that request. So it pulls in our inference code from ECR. Again, it will spin up as many hosts as it needs to actually provide endpoints and serve those requests coming in. And it will spin up endpoints as well that we can use to communicate with the outside world. So now we might have some client application that's sending in requests to our model. And that endpoint will then very quickly make those predictions and send them back. You know, for example, maybe we have a client that's taking pictures and we want to know what's in the picture. It might say, hey, endpoint, here's a picture. Tell me what's in it. It would then refer to that inference code and the train model artifacts that we have to say, okay, I think it's a picture of a cat and send that back to the client application, as it's just one of many examples. There are a couple of ways to work with SageMaker. Probably the most common is by using the SageMaker notebook, and it's just a notebook instance running on an EC2 instance somewhere that you specify, and you spin these up from the console and it's very easy to use. As you'll see, your SageMaker notebook has access to S3 so it can actually access its training and validation data there, or whatever else you need. You can do things like use scikit learn or PySpark or TensorFlow within them if you want to, and it has access to a wide variety of built in models. So there are pre-built Docker images out there that contain a wide variety of models you can just use out of the box. And we're going to spend a lot of time talking about those. You can also spin up those training instances from within your notebook. So within your very notebook there you can say go spin up a whole fleet of servers that are dedicated, specialized machine learning hosts to execute that training on. And when your training is done and saved to S3, you can also from the notebook say, okay, deploy that model to a whole fleet of endpoints and allow me to make predictions at large scale. And you can even say from the notebook, go ahead and like do an automated hyperparameter tuning job to actually try different parameters on my model and try to find the ideal set of parameters to make that model work as well as possible. All of this can be done from within a notebook. You can also do a lot of this from the SageMaker console as well. The notebook obviously gives you more flexibility because you can actually write code there, but sometimes you'll use them together. So a pretty common thing is to kick off a training job or a hyperparameter tuning job from within your notebook, then switch back to the console and just keep an eye on it. See how well it's doing. Let's talk about the data preparation stage and how that interacts with SageMaker. So again SageMaker expects your data to come from S3 somewhere. So we kind of assume that you've already prepared it using some other means if you need to. The formatted aspects will vary with the algorithm with the actual training code that you're deploying from ECR, right. For the built in algorithms, that's often record IO protobuf format, which is just a data format that's very well suited as the input to deep learning and other machine learning models. But usually these algorithms will also just take, you know, straight up CSV data or whatever you might have. But record IO protobuf will usually be a lot more efficient if you can get your data into that format and you can do that pre-processing within your SageMaker notebook if you want to, that's fine. And these days, you're not limited to S3 as an input source for SageMaker. You can also ingest data from Athena, EMR, redshift, and also the Amazon Key Spaces database. If you want to, you can also integrate spark with SageMaker, which is pretty cool. So if you want to use Apache Spark to pre-process your data at massive scale, you can actually use SageMaker within spark, and we'll see an example of that later on in the course. You also have the usual tools at your disposal that you can use within a Jupyter notebook. Scikit learn numpy pandas. If you want to use that to slice and dice and manipulate your data before you actually feed it into your training job, that's totally fine. So conceptually, the processing stage would look like this. You're going to have some data in S3. That's the data that you want to process. That can be whatever bucket you want, and that will get fed into the processing container that you specify. That can be one of the built in SageMaker ones, or your own user provided container and Docker that does whatever you want, whatever you can dream up. And the output just goes to an S3 bucket again of your choosing. So as long as it fits this architecture. You can work that into your SageMaker notebooks as part of your process and use that processing stage however you need to for training similar process. You're going to create a training job and that's going to take as an input the URL of the S3 bucket that contains your training data. And if you did do some processing in the previous stage, that will be the output of that processing job, right? That will then spin up whatever machine learning compute resources it needs to do that training. You will give it a URL for an S3 bucket to put the output into, and an ECR path that will point to your training code. So that can be whatever you want. Obviously, there's a lot of built in training options you can choose from. There's all the built in training algorithms that we're going to talk about shortly. You can also specify something that works with spark Mllib library. You can have your own custom code that runs in Python with TensorFlow or MXNet. Also, PyTorch is supported these days as well. You can also use scikit learn within Python and RL estimator for reinforcement learning applications. Also XGBoost. All of the models in hugging face and Chainer are at your disposal. Or you can provide your own Docker image that does whatever you want. So if you want to bring your own code, you can integrate that into SageMaker training as well. Also, there's a bunch of algorithms available on the AWS marketplace that you can purchase as well for training for things that might be more customized and things that you need to pay for. Once you have your model trained, it's time to deploy it and do something with it so you can save a image of your trained model to S3, where it can be pulled up and used as you need it. There's a couple of ways to deploy that. One is using a persistent endpoint. So if you just need something sitting there being ready to make predictions all the time from some API or external application, you can do that. That allows you to make individual predictions based on new observations on demand. Or you might want to do things in a batch process, right? So maybe you just have this pile of data that you need to make predictions based on. You can set up a SageMaker batch transform to get predictions for an entire data set, and then just shut down your model when you're done doing that. Lots of cool options along the way of training. Here we have something called inference pipelines that can be used for more complex processing, where you need to chain steps together in more complex ways and tie them all together. There's also something called SageMaker neo that can deploy your model to edge devices, and that can get a closer out to the end applications, you know, distributed around the world. And this special inference instance types for that application, they're available. There's also automatic scaling capabilities. So you can automatically increase the number of endpoints you have as needed. If you're doing a persistent deployment there for on demand predictions. And finally, there's something called shadow testing that can automatically evaluate your new model against the currently deployed one. And if it doesn't perform as well. And we can either be talking about the model's performance in terms of making predictions or its performance in terms of how long it takes. That can be used to automatically catch that error before it actually gets deployed. So there's a little safety net there you can use as well. We'll talk about these in more detail, but for now let's dig into those built in training models that we have at our disposal and go through what we have.

---

### Lecture: SageMaker Input Modes

Let's go into some depth on Sagemaker's input modes for how you get that data into SageMaker. This very well could turn up in the exam. So there are different choices here in how you feed your data in and when you're dealing with massive amounts of data. This can be important, right? You need to think about how quickly you can get that data into your training instances, and whether or not you need to actually have space on those training instances to contain all of that data. Right. So if you have a massive data set, you don't necessarily want to have to copy that entire data set from one point to another to perform training on it, because, well, that's going to involve a lot of redundant storage. And the speed of transferring that data is going to affect the speed of your training. You've got to wait for that data to get there, potentially before you can start training. And the default mode of S3 file mode has all those problems. So that will just copy your training data from S3 to some local directory in the Docker container for your training model. In SageMaker, it's simple, so if you're dealing with a small amount of data, then it's a great way to get started. But again, important limitations there. You have to wait for that copy to happen. And you have to have enough space on your Docker container to actually hold that data. So that can definitely be limiting. If you have a massive data set you're dealing with. There's also something called S3 Fast File mode. And this is kind of what's in style for a lot of applications now. It's similar to what we call pipe mode where it's not actually copying the data, it's just streaming it from the S3 source. So this allows you to train without waiting for that data to be downloaded first. So that can speed up the training time because you don't have to wait for that copy. Right. And you also don't need to have space for all that data necessarily either. And this is actually a little bit different than pipe mode because it can do random access. It works best if you're accessing data sequentially, but it can actually randomly access your data as well. So that's why this is kind of the preferred mode over pipe mode right now. Pipe mode is still there though, so if you just need to stream data from S3 sequentially, that's still there for you. If you want something simpler, but it's mostly replaced by fast file mode these days. Another thing to talk about is Amazon S3 express one zone. Not necessarily an input mode of itself, but something you can use with input mode. So it works with file, fast file and pipe modes that we've talked about. It's just a very high performance storage class that only exists in one availability zone. So if you don't need redundancy for that data necessarily, you got it backed up somewhere else. By using S3 express one zone, you can speed up that performance even further for getting that data into your training instances. So that's an option for you for accelerating things. Data can also come from Amazon FSX for lustre. So if you're doing something really massive and you need to scale up to hundreds of gigabytes of throughput and millions of IOPs and still have low latency, uh, Amazon FSX for lustre is probably going to be your choice. So if you're training a large language model with massive amounts of data, that's going to be your go to, um, it is limited to a single availability zone, just like S3 express one zone, and it also requires use of a VPC. Finally, there's Amazon EFS. That's always an option as well. So if your data is already in EFS, you can just suck it in from there as well to your training instance. That does require a VPC as well. So those are the input modes for SageMaker. The different ways of getting your data in there. And it is important to know how they differ and how you might choose them and what the benefits of them are.

---

### Lecture: Linear Learner in SageMaker

Let's start diving into the long list of built in algorithms that SageMaker offers. You will actually be expected to know about these things and the things that are special and quirky about each one. So pay attention, guys. Take notes. It's all important. We'll start with Linear Learner, which is a pretty simple concept, right? I mean, linear regression. That's kind of like the first thing you learn about in machine learning. And all it is, is the idea of fitting a line to some training data set. Right. So once I have a line fitted to some data, I can just say okay, given an x value, I'll use that line equation to predict its y value. But linear learner does a whole lot more than just that. It is important to remember that it's linear. I mean, not all data sets are really suitable for a linear function, right? Not all data sets are separable by a line. Sometimes you have to have more of a curve to actually get at what's going on. So, you know, you want to make sure you're looking at your scatter plots and figuring out if a line really is an appropriate fit for what you're trying to do. But if so, it can actually do more than just linear regression. It can handle both regression and classification, which is a little bit counterintuitive. I mean, usually when we think about regression, we're thinking about numerical problems, not classification problems, but linear learner can actually do both by using what's called a linear threshold function. So in the classification case it can do either binary or multi-class classification problems. So linear learner can do pretty much anything as long as the line will fit what you're trying to do, its input format. And we're going to get into this with every single algorithm that we look at. It would like to have record IO wrapped protobuf file format in Float32 data. So that's going to be the most performant option for you. But it can also take raw CSV data as well. In that case, it will assume that the first column is the label data, followed by all the feature data, and it supports both file or pipe mode in either case. So what do I mean by that? Well, in file mode in SageMaker, it will copy all of your training data over as a single file all at once to every training instance in your training fleet, whereas pipe mode will actually pipe it and stream it in from S3 as needed. Obviously, pipe mode is going to be more efficient, especially with larger training sets, right? So if you're having a problem where S3 is taking too long to train like it's getting a hard time even getting started, a very simple optimization would be to use pipe mode instead of file mode. Remember that for the exam guys, we'll get into for every algorithm some sort of things that are special about them. So for linear learner, some things you have to know are that the training data should be normalized. And you can either do that yourself or let the linear learner algorithm do that for you automatically. But you have to remember to do one or the other. Either normalize your data up front, or remember to tell linear learner to actually normalize your data for you. You also need to make sure that your input data is shuffled. That's going to be very important for getting good results out of it. Now Linear Learner is actually doing some pretty complicated stuff under the hood. It's using SGD stochastic gradient descent. You can have one of many optimization algorithms to choose from, including variations of SGD like Adam and Adagrad, and it actually trains multiple models in parallel and chooses the most optimal one during the validation step. So pretty sophisticated stuff. It also offers L1 and L2 regularization, which you can tune. Again, these are just ways to prevent overfitting where L1 is ending up doing feature selection, whereas L2 is sort of just weighting your individual features more smoothly. Some important hyperparameters. When you're actually tuning your linear learner model one is balanced multi-class weights, and you want to be able to set that to give each class equal importance in the loss function. So important to remember to set that. Also, you can adjust the learning rate and batch size, just like we talked about when we talked about tuning neural networks. Very much works the same way. And you can also adjust the L1 regularization term as well as L2. L2 goes by the name of weight decay in this particular set of hyperparameters. Also a couple of more parameters that may or may not be important for the exam. Our target precision and target recall. So with either of these, if you set the binary classifier model selection criteria to the appropriate value, either recall at target precision or precision at target recall, what you can do is set a target, a precise value that you want to hit for either precision or recall, and it will either hold the recall at that value while maximizing for precision, or hold the precision at that value while maximizing for recall. Good to know the types of instances you should choose for linear learner are either single or multi-machine. CPU or GPU. So it does help to have more than one machine, but it does not help to have more than one GPU on one machine. So important to remember that stuff just to drive home that this is not your father's linear regression here. One of the examples they give you is actually using linear learner to classify handwriting recognition using the mNIST data set. So that's kind of cool. You can actually use linear learner as a classifier and just feed in raw pixel data and have it classify things. And it actually works. I mean that's crazy right? But again, if you look at how it's working under the hood, it's not that dissimilar from how we train neural networks. So even though it's not a neural network, it works in some ways in a similar manner. So it's kind of cool. So that's linear learner in a nutshell And we're just going to keep plowing through each of these algorithms and talk about the important points that might show up on the exam.

---

### Lecture: XGBoost in SageMaker

Next, let's talk about XGBoost and its built in algorithm for SageMaker. XGBoost is really hot these days. It stands for Extreme Gradient Boosting. We touched on it a bit when we talked about boosting earlier. It is a boosted group of decision trees. That means that we have sort of a series of decision trees where we keep making new trees that are made to correct the errors of the previous trees, and they sort of build on each other to make a better and better model. It's using gradient descent as it goes. That seems to be sort of the key to a lot of these algorithms, right. And it uses that to minimize the loss as those new trees are added in. XGBoost has been winning a lot of Kaggle competitions lately, so it's really one of the hottest algorithms out there right now. And it's also pretty fast. So, you know, you're not going to pay a huge computational cost to it either. And although you tend to think of decision trees in the context of classification problems, it turns out you can also use it for regression, for predicting numerical values. And it uses something called regression trees for that case. XGBoost is a little bit of an odd duck, in that it wasn't really made for SageMaker from the ground up in the AWS implementation. They just started from the open source version of XGBoost that everybody else uses, and they've been building on top of that. Originally, XGBoost would only take. CSV or Libsvm input within SageMaker, but as of now, in fall of 2020, AWS has recently extended that to accept record I, o protobuf and parquet input formats as well. So they are kind of making it their own now, but at its root, it's open source XGBoost. Because of that, your models just get serialized or deserialized using pickle with Python, and you can also just use it as a framework within your SageMaker notebook using SageMaker XGBoost, so you don't even have to deploy it to training hosts. Or you don't even have to like use a Docker image with it. You can just use it within your notebook if you want to. Of course, it's just going to be running on your notebook instance in that case, but you can also use it as a built in SageMaker algorithm and refer to the XGBoost Docker image in ECR, and deploy that to a fleet of training hosts to do larger scale training jobs. The thing with XGBoost, though, is that it has a lot of hyperparameters, and tuning them is really a the main battle in getting good results out of it. So here are just a few of them. I mean, there's just a ton of them. There's the subsample hyperparameter. You can use that to prevent overfitting. So if you're asked how do I prevent overfitting in XGBoost? Adjusting the subsample parameter is a good way of doing that. So is eta that corresponds to the step size shrinkage, and that is also used for preventing overfitting. Other parameters include gamma, alpha, and lambda. Gamma corresponds to the minimum loss reduction. To create a partition for a new branch of your tree, Alpha and lambda correspond to the L1 and L2 regularization terms, and in both cases larger values will yield a more conservative model. So more hyperparameters that you might see on the exam. Eval underscore metric that allows you to set the metric that you're optimizing on while training. And if you're focusing on accuracy like you usually are, you'll probably set that to something like error or RMSE. But maybe you're in a situation where you care more about things like false positives. And in that case, you might want to be optimizing on something like area under the curve instead AUC. So remember you have that knob available to you. Also scale pause wait. That allows you to adjust the balance of positive and negative weights. So if you're dealing with unbalanced data where you have a lot more negative cases and positive cases, or vice versa. Scale, pause wait can help you deal with that situation. So again, if you're dealing with a positive and negative cases that are out of whack, scale, pause, wait can help you compensate for that, and it suggests setting that to the sum of your negative cases over the sum of your positive cases. Finally, let's mention max depth that does what it sounds like. It sets the maximum depth of the tree that's used in XGBoost. I think it's six by default, but you don't need to remember that. The main thing you need to remember though, is that if you set that too high, you may overfit your model. So the more deep your tree is, the more complicated the model will be. And if your model is too complicated, then you risk overfitting. So that's why max depth can be an important setting to have. As for the advice on instance types to use, keep in mind that XGBoost, at least in its CPU implementation, is memory bound and not compute bound, generally speaking. So if you're not going to go with GPUs, M5 would be a good choice to optimize for memory. However as of XGBoost version 1.2, it is possible to train on single instances GPUs when they're available. So that opens up the possibility of using P2 and P3 instances. Now, in order to do single instance GPU training, you got to set the tree underscore method hyperparameter to GPU, underscore hist. And that can train a lot more quickly. And it can also be more cost effective. So take advantage of that new capability. Also in 1.22, we've also added the G4 and G5 instance types as possibilities to XGBoost, so you can get even more power if you need it, and even better in 1.5 that was introduced in May of 2023, you can now do distributed GPU training as well, so you can have a cluster of g5's, for example, and spread out your XGBoost training over that. To do that, you have to also set the tree method to GPU hist, just like you did in 1.2. But in addition to that, you have to also set use dask GPU training to true as well. Also, when you're setting up the training input, you need to set the distribution parameter to fully replicated, and that will automatically split up your training data across the cluster for you. Keep in mind the distributed GPU training as of now only works with CSV or parquet inputs.

---

### Lecture: LightGBM in SageMaker

Another built in algorithm you might hear mentioned is Lightgbm. And like XGBoost, it's a gradient boosting decision tree algorithm, kind of a building off the success of XGBoost. There's a few variations of it out there now, so it is kind of like XGBoost in that it's based on gradient boosted decision trees, also similar to another algorithm called Catboost, which is also a built in algorithm in SageMaker. I'm not going to go into depth on that one because it's really similar to this one, but Lightgbm catboost both gradient boosting decision trees algorithms, that's the main thing to remember. It's called Lightgbm and not just gradient boosted decision tree because they did extend it with a couple of unique features, one called gradient based, one side sampling, and another one called Exclusive Feature bundling. You don't need to remember that. What it does is predict a target variable from within an ensemble of estimates from simpler models. So again, it's just an ensemble method of taking a bunch of decision trees and sticking them together to do something more complicated. And it can be used for classification problems, regression problems, or ranking problems It does expect text CSV format for training and for inference, and there are some more specifics about there not being labels or headers or things like that. If you read the documentation on Lightgbm not too important, but it is limited in its file format that it can accept, and you can provide that data for both training and for validation. Optionally, if you want to, to make it even better. There are a bunch of hyperparameters associated with Lightgbm, and I'll just go through the tunable ones, like learning rate, which is exactly what it sounds like. NUM leaves the maximum number of leaves per tree can be tuned as well. The subset of features that are represented per tree can also be adjusted as well. So as you have this sort of forest of trees that are being ensembled together, if you will, each tree will represent only a subset of the features that you have. You can control how big of a subset that is. Bagging fraction is a similar idea, but the features are randomly sampled or more accurately, the data is randomly sampled within those features, and you can also set the frequency on how often that random sampling is done using bagging underscore freq. You can also specify the maximum depth of each tree, and also an important one might be min data in leaf, which is the minimum amount of data that can be held in one leaf of one of these trees, and that is noted as being able to address overfitting in your model if that's a problem. For instance. Types. This is a CPU only algorithm. However, it can be distributed across single or multi-instance CPUs, and you can define how many instances you are using with the instance underscore count parameter in your estimator. This is a memory bound algorithm, so you want to choose general purpose instance types over compute optimized instance types. So that would be an M5 as opposed to a C5 that you want to choose for a Lightgbm instance type to be sure that you have enough memory, however, because again you are going to be memory bound.

---

### Lecture: Seq2Seq in SageMaker

Next up, we'll talk about Sagemaker's Seek to seek algorithm that stands for sequence to sequence, and that might ring a bell from when we talked about RNNs. This is an example of where you just take in a sequence of tokens and you output another sequence of tokens. And like we said before, a common use of that is machine translation. You can think of a sentence as just a sequence of tokens, a sequence of words. Right. And your output would be a sequence of translated words based on that same phrase. It's also used for things like text summarization. So maybe I can take in a sequence of tokens that corresponds to words in a document, and output a sequence that corresponds to words of a summarization of that document. Speech to text. Another example of that, I might have tokenized some audio waveforms, and I want to output tokenized words in text instead. Under the hood, it can implement this with either RNNs or CNNs with attention, which is sort of an alternative method. So even though we talk about sequential data as being a fit for RNNs, they can also be a fit for CNNs as well. It expects record I o protobuf as its input, where the tokens are integers. And that's a little bit unusual because most of the algorithms in SageMaker want floating point data. But if you think about it, the sequences are going to be tokens, right? So we're going to have some sort of a sequence of things. And those might be integer indices into vocabulary files for words or something else. And it really should be record io protobuf format, because that is really custom built for being a good input into a neural network like this. So you need to provide training input in the form of tokenized text files. You can't just pass in a text file full of word documents or whatever, right? You need to actually build a vocabulary file that maps every word to a number. Because, you know, computers like numbers, not words. So you're going to have to provide it with both that vocabulary file and the tokenized text files or whatever else you're tokenizing as the input. There is sample code provided in SageMaker that shows you how to actually do that and convert everything to the record io protobuf format that it expects as input. It ends up looking a lot like that Tfidf lab that we did earlier, actually. But at the end of the day, you provide training data, a validation data set, and a vocabulary file that it can use to actually map those tokenized files to actual words or whatever it is you're trying to encode. Now, as you can imagine, building a machine learning model that can translate between two different languages is a pretty tall order. And yeah, it can take days to train these things, even using the power of SageMaker and, you know, huge fleets of training hosts. Fortunately, there are pre-trained models available. So if you look at the example notebook they provide, they'll show you how to actually access pre-trained models for translating from one language to another. The details aren't important for the exam, but you just need to know that you can do that. And there are public training data sets out there as well that you can use for a specific translation tasks. You don't need to go out there and build your own dictionary of every word in English, and how that corresponds to every word in German. For example, there are people who have done that work for you already. So again, very common use of seek to seek is in machine translation. Usually that's the context you hear it talked about in the hyperparameters for seek. To seek are the ones you would mostly expect for a neural network batch size the optimizer type Adam SGD or Rmsprop the learning rate. How many layers do I have? Um, the thing that's a little bit different about it though are the optimizers. So what are you optimizing on? You can just optimize on accuracy. So you could provide a validation data set that says, here's what I think the correct translation of this word of this sentence would be and it will measure. Well, did I get that right or not? But in the world of machine translation, the results tend to be a little bit more nuanced, right? So you're going to use different metrics more likely. For example, Bleu score can actually compare your translation against multiple reference translations. So it can have a little bit more of a wiggle room there as to what's considered correct. There's also a metric called perplexity that's used in this space. That's a cross entropy metric. But for the purpose of the exam, just remember that Bleu score and perplexity are well suited for measuring machine translation problems. Obviously, as a deep learning algorithm, it takes advantage of GPUs and you should just use GPU instance types for this. As we said, it's a very heavy duty algorithm, so you're probably going to want to throw a P3 node at it. Unfortunately, you can only use a single machine for training, so it cannot actually be parallelized across multiple machines, which is kind of a bummer given how intensive this training is. However, the good news is it can use multiple GPUs on the same machine, at least so you want to. If you're doing a very large training job with seek to seek use a very beefy host. Uh, P3 with lots of GPUs.

---

### Lecture: DeepAR in SageMaker

Up next in our SageMaker bestiary is deep R. Deep. R is used for forecasting one dimensional time series data. So it's kind of the classic use case of an RNN of a recurrent neural network. So we're looking at a sequence of data points over time and trying to predict what that sequence will do in the future. For example, looking at stock prices and trying to predict future stock prices. What's a little bit different about it over just a straight up RNN, is that you can actually train deep R over several related time series at once, so it's not limited to training over a single time series. If you have many time series that are somehow interdependent, it can actually learn from those relationships between those time series. To create a better model for predicting any individual time series, it's able to find frequencies and seasonality. So you know it's going to be better than just a straight up linear regression, sort of an approach. It can actually learn the nuances of your data over time and feed that forward into the future for you for training input. It has a wide variety that it can take. It can take JSON lines format, and that can be gzipped or in parquet format for even better performance. Basically every record of that input data has to have a starting timestamp followed by the time series values, and optionally it can also include dynamic features such as you know, was a promotion applied to the product in the time series or the product purchases. It can also include categorical features as well. So if you have that sort of additional data, it can also learn from that as well. A little example of what the input format might look like is below here. Basically you have start containing the starting timestamp and then target, which is a list of time series values for that time series. And then optionally you can have categorical features and dynamic features as well. So how is it used? What's quirky about it. Well you always include the entire time series for training, testing and inference. So even though you might only be interested in a certain window of it, you want to give it all the data you can so it can learn better. Always use the entire data set as a test set, just removing the last time sets for training. So training and testing RNNs and time series data is a little bit weird. That way you want to evaluate on the data set you withheld, but still have the original data before that to actually use for evaluation. You don't want to use very large values for prediction length. So don't try to go beyond, say, 400 data points that you're predicting in the future. Things get a little bit wiggly after that. And again, if you can train on many time series that are related together and not just on one that will unleash the full power of deep R for you. Some of the hyperparameters in deep R are the ones that you would expect with a neural network of any sort. The number of epochs for training, the batch size, the learning rate, num cells is just how many neurons we're using in it. We also have the context length though, and this is basically the number of time points the model sees before making a prediction. And that can actually be smaller than your seasonality period. But remember that the model is going to lag by one year anyhow. So even if you're doing a shorter context length that you're using, it's still going to be able to go back in time and pick up seasonalities on the scale of up to one year. That's why it's important to always give it the entire data set for training, and not just the window that you care about. That way, it can pick up on those seasonal trends based on more historical data. Here's the latest guidance on instance types. For deep R, you can use either CPU or GPU instances. This can run either on a single machine or a multi machine. So it's very scalable. You can deploy this across a cluster if you want to. However, just because you can use a GPU instance doesn't mean you should. The official recommendations from AWS are that you start with CPU instances, specifically the MLC 4.2 Xlarge, or if you need more, the MLC 4.4 Xlarge instance types and only move up to GPUs if necessary. The reason is this only really helps with larger models with deep R, so if you're using a really large model, or you're using large mini batch sizes specifically greater than 512, then GPU instances might make sense for you. This is only for training though, so for inference only CPU types are supported. Now remember you may need larger instances for tuning. The tuning stage may take quite a while and be very compute intensive so sometimes it makes sense to use beefier instances for the tuning stage and then throttle that down a little bit for the actual production stage.

---

### Lecture: BlazingText in SageMaker

Next, let's cover the blazing text algorithm, and you would think with a name like Blazing Text, it would be this incredibly general purpose, huge natural language processing thing. But in reality, it's fairly constrained in what it can do. So don't let the name fool you. What is it for? Well, it can be used for a couple of different things. One is text classification, so it can predict labels for a given sentence. If you train the system with existing sentences and the labels that you have associated with them. So this is a supervised learning system where you train it with a group of sentences and labels that you've associated with those sentences. And it can take that information and predict labels for new sentences that you pass in in the future. This is useful for things like web search or information retrieval, but remember, it's intended only for use with sentences, not entire documents. That's an important distinction to remember on the exam. The other thing it can do is what we call a word to vec. This is a word embedding layer that it creates. So it creates a vector representation of words where semantically similar words will be vectors that are close to each other. In the space of this embedding layer, basically it's finding words that are similar to each other. So you might ask yourself well how is that helpful? By itself it often isn't. But for other natural language processing algorithms it can be a useful component. So you can use that embedding layer that gives you similar words when you're doing things like machine translation or sentiment analysis and other things. But remember, word two vec only works on words. It does not work on entire sentences or entire documents. It's just giving you this embedding layer that puts similar words close to each other. That's all it does. So blazing text two things supervised text classification or word two vec, which is a word embedding layer for finding words that are similar to each other. Now the training input that it expects is very specific. So for supervised mode when you're doing the text classification, basically you're going to feed in one sentence per line. And the first so-called word in that sentence will be the string underscore underscore label underscore underscore followed by the actual label for that sentence. It also accepts what we call augmented manifest text format, if you wish. And for word two vec mode, it just wants a text file with one training sentence per line. So an example of what the input for the supervised mode might look like is below. Here you see that we have underscore underscore label underscore underscore for. That means I'm going to associate label number four with the following sentence Linux ready for prime time, blah blah blah. And notice that we've tokenized this so that every word is separated by a space with other words. And that also goes for punctuation. So you'll notice that there's spaces around the commas and the periods as well there too. We've also lowercased everything to make sure that we don't have to deal with case sensitivity in the algorithms either. So this is an example of what that actual input would look like. Remember that these input formats are actually important and could show up on the exam. The augmented text format is also shown here, which is a little bit more of a structured way of putting that together. We have a source and a label field where we have again the tokenized and pre-processed sentence and the actual label number as well There are a few different modes of operation for word two vec. One is called cbow, which is continuous bag of words and envision, if you will, a bag of words. It's exactly like that. So the idea there that you're trying to picture is that these words aren't really structured in a way where the order of the words matters. It's just a bag of disconnected words that it's learning relationships between. So the actual order of the words is being thrown out during the training process. It's just the words themselves that matter. However, it also has two other modes skip gram and batch skip gram, which are different. Those can be actually distributed over many CPU nodes. In the case of batch skip gram, which is kind of good. Skip gram we're talking about n grams there. So the order actually does matter in that case. Important hyperparameters. Again, this differs based on which mode you're using for a word to vec where we're doing the embedding stuff. The mode is obviously very important are using continuous bag of words skip gram or batch skip gram. Also learning rate window size vector dim and negative samples all are important parameters for tuning the performance of that for the text classification mode. The the usual suspects for neural networks come into play here. The number of epochs, the learning rate, and also the word n grams and vector dimension for actually seeing how many words are going to look at together. For the continuous bag of words and skip gram modes of blazing text, they recommend a P3 node, and you can use a single CPU or single GPU instance as well, but this will take advantage of GPUs. However, it can only use a single machine. However, batch skip gram can use multiple CPU instances instead, so if you do need to scale horizontally, batch skip gram would be the way to go, but you're going to be using CPUs instead of GPUs for that one. For text classification mode, they recommend a C5 node if you're using less than two gigabytes of training data, and if you need something bigger, you could go up to a P2 xlarge or a P3 dot two xlarge so it can go with either CPU or GPU on that one.

---

### Lecture: Object2Vec in SageMaker

Next we'll cover Objectivec. And if you remember when we talked about blazing text, we talked about word two vec. And that was restricted to finding relationships between individual words in a sentence. So object two vec is a similar idea. It's an embedding layer that shows you things that are similar to each other, but it's more general purpose. It works on arbitrary objects. So whereas word two vec would be operating on an individual word level with object two vec, you could actually operate on entire documents if you wanted to, or entirely other kinds of things if you if you want. So again, it's just an embedding layer. It's creating this low dimensional dense embedding of higher dimensional objects. So it's basically taking all the features and attributes of your objects and boiling that down to a lower dimensional representation, where the vectors that represent each object represent how similar they are to each other. So you can use this for a lot of things computing the nearest neighbors of objects for clustering purposes. You can visualize those clusters if you want to. You can use it for things like genre prediction. So things that are close together in this object embedding space or possibly in the same genre for like dealing with movies or music or something like that. The usefulness of things like similar items or similar users also comes into play with recommendations and recommender systems. When you're recommending stuff to people, obviously you want to show things that similar users also liked, or maybe show items that are similar to the items that you liked. A couple of ways to do that, but either way, for similar items or similar users, items and users could both be examples of objects that object to that can find relationships between the input. You have to tokenize the data into integers, first of all, so you know you can't just throw in an image or something there and expect it to work. You need to give it a list of integers, basically that represent something else. And what's weird about object movec is that it consists of pairs of tokens or sequences of tokens. So you're dealing with things like a pair of sentences or labels and sequences, for example, genres to a sequence of words that represent a description, customer pairs or product pairs, or user to item pairs. So we're trying to find these relationships between things based on these paired attributes, if you will. And an example of what that actual format might look like is below. If you want to take a look at that So the way that it works is that we basically have two paths going in parallel for each component of that pair. And remember we can have different pairs of different things there. So we have two input channels here. Each input channel has its own encoder and its own input path. Those two input channels feed into a comparator which generates the ultimate label. So for each input path, you can choose your own encoder. And there's a couple of choices. Well there's a few choices here. One is average pooled embeddings. One is using a CNN and also a bidirectional LSTM. So what works best for your data will vary. Obviously the comparator itself is actually followed by a feedforward neural network. So at the end of the day you have a fairly complex system here based on deep learning. And it's pretty impressive what it can do. You only need this high level understanding in terms of the exam. You know, the details are not going to be that important. If you need to tune this thing, the usual suspects for deep learning crop up again here. Dropout early. Stopping the number of epochs. The learning rate. The batch size. How many layers you have, what activation function you're using, what optimizer you're using, what your weight to decay is. I mean, it's just straight up deep learning optimization here. There's also the encoder one network and encoder two network. And that's where you actually choose the encoder type for each input channel, which again can be a CNN, a LSTM or a pooled embedding layer. here's the latest guidance on instance types for object to vec. Currently you can only train on a single machine, so you are limited to one machine. Here it can be a CPU or GPU instance. However that can be a multi-GPU instance. So that's one way to get the benefits of more than one processor in one machine here. For training purposes. They do recommend that you start with CPU though, so ML m5 dot two xlarge is where they recommend starting from. Or if you want to start on a GPU, start with the p2 dot xlarge instance type there instead. If you find that doesn't meet your needs. If you have a really large job there, you can beef yourself up on the CPU side to maybe an M5 dot four xlarge or a 12 xlarge, and on the GPU side, the supported options are the P2, P3, and the new G4 and G5 instance types as well. Those GPU data types are also available on the inference side, although they do recommend specifically using a ML dot p 3.2 xlarge for inference and they also advise using the inference underscore preferred underscore mode environment variable in order to optimize for encoder embeddings rather than classification or regression, if that's what makes sense for you.

---

### Lecture: Object Detection in SageMaker

Let's talk about a fun one the object detection algorithms in SageMaker. The idea here is to identify all of the objects in an image, along with where they are, with bounding boxes of where those objects exist. So in this example to the right here we have a picture of a little office here. And it's telling you, hey, someone had a bad day. They got a wine bottle there and a wine glass. And it tells you where those are in the image and what the bounding rectangles are around them. Also, there's a chair, a laptop, a bowl. So this is what it does for you. It detects and classifies the objects within an image using a deep neural network. And those classes come back to you with confidence scores as well. So you can see just how sure it is that that's a wine glass as opposed to something else. You can either train these from scratch or use pre-trained models based on ImageNet. In the case of MXNet. Or there's also a TensorFlow variant where you have more choices. So yeah, let's talk about that. Technically there are two different object detection algorithms in TensorFlow. One is object detection MXNet, which I believe is the older original one. And then there's object detection TensorFlow, which gives you some more choices. In both cases, they'll take an image as the input and output all the instances of objects in the image, with categories and confidence scores associated with them. Now the MXNet version uses a convolutional neural network under the hood using the single shot multiplex decoder algorithm SSD, and under the hood that CNN can be Vgg16 or ResNet 50. It has both transfer learning modes and incremental training modes, so you can use a pre-trained model for the base network weights instead of random initial weights if you need to. Internally, it uses flip, rescale, and jitter to avoid overfitting. Then we have the TensorFlow version object detection TensorFlow that allows you to choose from many different models. There are various incarnations of ResNet Efficientnet MobileNet to choose from there from the TensorFlow model garden, and the details of how to train those and how to use them and how to configure them will vary based on the model you choose. It's kind of a a wrapper, if you will, for TensorFlow model garden models. They're now in the case of MXNet, since we do know what model it's using, it is more specific about its training input. For that case, you want to use MXNet Recordio format or an image format, JPEG or PNG. And with that image format, you'll supply a JSON file for annotation data for each image when you're training it. So this is the case where you're training object detection with your own data about what objects are in what images. So you'd give it a file that looks like this that says, hey, here's a picture that has stuff in it. Here's the size of that image. Here are the annotations of what's in it. Here are the categories of that area and so forth. In the case of TensorFlow though, um, it will vary based on what model you select. There are some important hyperparameters for both MXNet and TensorFlow, and MXNet is called Minibatch size TensorFlow. TensorFlow just calls it batch size. Same thing. You know, standard deep learning stuff of tuning the batch size that you're training with. There's also learning rate. And you can choose any one of a number of optimizers whatever works best for your data. As far as instance type recommendations go, this is an intensive operation for training. You want to use GPU instances, and you can use a multi-GPU instance and even multiple GPU instances if you need to. It works. In any of those cases, they recommend the P2 Xlarge or P3 two Xlarge instance types, and if you need more, you can go up to 16 Xlarge on either of those classes. Also, the newer G4 and G5 instance types are on the table as well. On the inference side, you can go GPU or CPU. They recommend M5. On the CPU side and on the GPU side, anything goes. P2, P3, G4 are all okay.

---

### Lecture: Image Classification in SageMaker

Now a close cousin to the object detection algorithms are the image classification algorithms, and you can pretty much expect a question about what the difference is between the two. So where is object detection would tell you where the objects in an image are. Image classification just tells you the stuff that's in the image. So it will assign one or more labels to an image and that's it. It just gives you back labels. So give it a picture of a cat and it'll say, hey, this is a cat. It does not tell you where the objects are, just what objects are in the image, because you don't always need to know where they are, right? It depends on your application and like object detection. There are separate versions of this algorithm for MXNet and the newer TensorFlow version. So there's image classification MXNet and image classification TensorFlow. These are treated as two different beasts in SageMaker. For the MXNet version, there is a full training mode where the network is initialized with random weights, and then there's a transfer learning mode that is initialized with pre-trained weights, and that top fully connected layer is initialized with random weights. The network is then fine tuned with your new training data so you can train it to identify objects it didn't know about before. Very similar to how object detection works right now. The default image size for MXNet is going to be three channel. That's red, green and blue 224 by 224. And that's going to match up with ImageNet data set. That's the reason that exists on TensorFlow though. As with object detection, the specifics will vary based on the specific model you choose from the TensorFlow hub. So there are many, many different variations of the MobileNet, inception, ResNet, and Efficientnet algorithms that you can choose from when using image classification TensorFlow. And you just need to refer to the documentation for that specific model that you want to use for the details. I wouldn't expect the exam to expect you to know all the details of every single model there, so I'm not going to get into it. However, also in this case, the top classification layer is available to you for either fine tuning or further training, so you can still take any of these pre-trained models and extend them to identify new objects that they didn't know about before. Some important hyperparameters. Again, the specific names of them may vary based on the specific underlying model you're using, but the batch size, learning rate, and optimizer, of course, are going to be available. And, uh, things you want to tune, just like any neural network. And then there's optimizer specific parameters, things like weight decay, beta one, beta two, epsilon gamma. The specifics will be slightly different between MXNet and the various underlying models with TensorFlow instance type recommendations. Again, this is a beefy thing. When you're doing image classification, you're going to want to be using GPU instances for training. For sure, P-2s, P-3s, G4, or G5's are all okay, and you can use multi-GPU instances and even multiple instances of multi-GPU instances. If you really need to scale this up. On the inference side, you have a little bit more flexibility. You can get away with an m5 CPU instance or P2, P3, G4, or G5 GPU instances as well. And in all these cases, of course, I'm talking about the machine learning varieties ML, M5, MLP two, and so on and so forth.

---

### Lecture: Semantic Segmentation in SageMaker

Still going further with our computer vision stuff. Let's talk about semantic segmentation. And you might recall that image classification only detects what objects are in an image. Object detection actually went further and told you the bounding boxes of where those objects are within the image. Semantic segmentation takes it one step further, so it's actually pixel level object classification. So what you get back is a mask that looks like this that says for every single pixel in the image, what do I think that is an image of what object is that pixel belong to? So in this case you can see there's probably some sort of a stuffed animal or something holding a rose with a bucket in front of it. Right. So for every single pixel it can tell you this is a stuffed animal, this is a rose, this is a bucket. And, you know, obviously that comes into play in things like self-driving cars where you really need that kind of granularity of where things are. So again, we're not just assigning labels to whole images or even bounding boxes. We're actually going down to the pixel level here and some other applications besides self-driving vehicles are medical imaging, diagnostics, robot sensing, things like that. We call this mask a segmentation mask that maps individual pixels to labels or classifications, if you will. When you're training it, it expects either JPEG or PNG files with annotations associated with them, and it needs both training and validation data, of course. It also has label maps to describe what those annotations are in plain English, and it can also accept augmented manifest image format. If you want to use pipe mode, which again can be a big performance boost by allowing you to stream the data in from S3 instead of copying everything over for inference. It will accept a JPEG image to say, okay, well, here's a picture. Tell me everything that's in it. At a pixel level under the hood, it's built on gluon and gluon CV, which in turn is built on top of Apache MXNet. And it gives you a choice of three different algorithms to use. So you can use a fully convolutional network or an FCN. Also an algorithm called pyramid scene parsing or PSP. And finally Deeplab v3. The details of how that works is not important for the exam. So I'm not going to clutter up your brain with it. You have your choice of a couple of flavors of ResNet for the underlying architecture of the neural network, ResNet 50 or ResNet 101. And both of those are going to be trained on the ImageNet database, which knows about most common everyday objects. And like the other computer vision techniques we've talked about, you can do incremental training with it as well or train it from scratch with whatever you want to do. You can train it on an entirely new set of objects, or start off with ImageNet and build upon that if you want to. Again, the usual suspects for deep learning hyperparameters here. Epochs. Learning rate, batch size. Optimizer. Also, your choice of algorithm that we talked about is obviously important when you're tuning things. And the choice of backbone as well is an important parameter to tune when you're doing hyperparameter tuning of semantic segmentation. Current guidance on instance types. For semantic segmentation, only GPU instances are supported for training. That means currently a P2, P3, G14, or G5 instance, and you are also limited to training on a single machine only with semantic segmentation. On inference, you have more flexibility. You can either use a CPU instance, they recommend either a C5 or an M5, or you can use a GPU instance if you want either a P3 or a G14.

---

### Lecture: Random Cut Forest in SageMaker

Next we'll cover Random cut forest. And that's Amazon's algorithm for anomaly detection. And it works in an unsupervised setting. So it basically it's looking at a series of data and trying to find things that are anomalous in that series. You know what things are sticking out as maybe being a little bit weird. And it could look for things like breaks in periodicity, things that are just unclassifiable. And for every data point, it will assign an anomaly score to that. Amazon developed this algorithm themselves. They wrote a paper on it and they're like really, really proud of it. It seems because it keeps creeping into all their different systems. So it's a pretty safe bet you'll see something about this on the exam, because Amazon seems to be very proud of it and using it all over the place. So what does he expect? Either CSV format or Recordio protobuf? You can use file or pipe mode in either case. Optionally, you can have a test channel if you just want to compute accuracy or precision or recall or F1 on labeled data. Again, this is an unsupervised algorithm, so there is no real training. But you can provide a test channel and try to measure its accuracy against something where you know what the anomalies are. How does it work under the hood? Well, they have a whole video on this available on AWS, but all you need to know is that basically, it's creating a forest of trees where every tree, like a decision tree, is a partition of the training data. And what it does is it looks at the expected change in the complexity of that tree as a result of adding a new point into it. So if you add a new data point into this decision tree and it causes a whole bunch of branches to form off, it says, well, this might be anomalous, right? So it's kind of a cool idea. They're basically using the properties of a decision tree and saying, okay, the fact that a decision tree needs to make a bunch of new branches to accommodate some new data probably means there's something weird about that data point. That's that's the basic idea. The data is sampled randomly. That's the random cut part of random cut forest. And then we train it. So Random cut forest is showing up, like I said, all over the place. It also shows up in Kinesis Analytics where it's available for doing anomaly detection on streams of data. So yeah, it can actually work on streaming data as well. It's not limited to working on batches of data, but under the hood it's based on looking at a series, maybe a time series of data and flagging things that are anomalous as it goes. The important hyperparameters are the number of trees, and if you have more trees, it reduces the noise or the number of samples per tree. The guidance is that you should choose that, such that one over number of samples per tree approximates the ratio of anomalous to normal data. So if you have a rough idea of how much of your data is anomalous ahead of time, you can tune num samples per tree to do a better job of identifying those anomalies. It does not take advantage of GPUs. It's really a fairly simple algorithm under the hood. So you want to use an M4 or C4 or C5 for training. And a C5 XL is recommended for inference. So that's random cut forest. Just remember that random cut forest is for anomaly detection and you should be okay

---

### Lecture: Neural Topic Model in SageMaker

Next, we'll dive into the world of topic modeling. That's where we're trying to figure out what's a document about basically at a high level. And these are unsupervised methods. So you can just throw a bunch of documents into these things and get topics out the other side. Now keep in mind these are just, uh, artificial topics that the algorithm has come up with. They're not going to be human readable things that necessarily make sense. Anyway, SageMaker gives you a couple of ways of doing this. And one of them is neural topic model. And again, we're just trying to organize documents into topics. And we can use that for classification or for even summarizing documents based on the topics that we think they represent. So it's more than just TF-IDF where we're trying to search on specific terms. It's actually grouping things together into higher levels of what those terms might represent. So for example, the terms bike and car and train and mileage and speed might all be associated with a single topic that might represent transportation at a more general level. Again, the model isn't going to know to call that topic transportation. It's just going to group these documents together. That talk about bikes and cars and trains and mileages and speed together into one topic. It's going to be up to you to interpret that it is an unsupervised algorithm, which again is why it doesn't really know what to call these things because we're not training it on known topic names. But it works. The underlying algorithm is called neural variational inference, if you're interested. For training again it's unsupervised. So training is kind of a not really the right word to use here. But you can do a training pass on it and just um, pass in a validation or a test channel if you want to actually measure its performance on a set of known data, where you know what the topics are, you can pass in record I, o protobuf or CSV data to actually analyze a given set of documents. And those words first must be tokenized into integers. So you don't just pass in raw text. First, you have to actually break up and convert those documents into tokens for each word, and also pass in a vocabulary file that maps those words to actual to the numbers that are representing them in the documents. So for every document, you have a count of every word in the vocabulary, often a CSV file that's separate the auxiliary channel is used for that vocabulary data, and you can use file or pipe mode. Either is fine. Obviously pipe always faster. Where are some quirks about it? Well, you define how many topics you want at the end. So basically the main hyperparameter you have is how many topics do I want to generate. So that will sort of control how high of a level it's trying to organize things into. So it will give you as many topics as you say. Again, those topics aren't going to map to specific human readable words. They're just going to be higher level concepts that are learned in an unsupervised manner. Those topics are going to be what we call a latent representation based on the top ranking words in your documents. So yeah, it's just trying to find these underlying relationships that are hard to uncover otherwise. And again, this is only one of two topic modeling algorithms that SageMaker offers. We'll talk about the next one next. So you should try them both and see which one works best. Being a neural topic model, batch size and learning rate are obviously some important hyperparameters. And also like we said, the number of topics that you want is really the main thing that you want to tune with. This thing that will control just how high or low level your topics end up being. It can actually use GPU or CPU. We recommend a GPU for training because it is a neural network, but you know, CPUs are cheaper and a CPU will probably be adequate for inference.

---

### Lecture: Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) in SageMaker

Let's dive into Sagemaker's other topic modeling algorithm, LDA, which stands for Latent Dirichlet Allocation. I think it's pronounced d or clay. There's some debate over how to say that. Actually some people say it's Dirichlet. I think it's Dirichlet. It sounds French to me. Anyway, it's another topic modeling algorithm that's not based on deep learning. And again, it's unsupervised, just like neural topic model. It's just not using a neural network under the hood, but otherwise it works the same way. So from a from a usage standpoint, it's the same sort of a thing. The topics themselves are unlabeled. They're just groupings of documents based on what words these documents share in common. And you can actually use this for things other than words if you want to. You could even cluster customers together based on their purchases, or do harmonic analyst analysis in music if you want to, using the same algorithm. So even though it's most commonly used for topic modeling and documents, it's actually a more general purpose. You can use it for other things too, that are just based on unsupervised clustering, based on things that each object has in common. So it takes in a training channel for actually analyzing the data. And optionally you can pass in a test channel if you just want to measure accuracy. Again, it's unsupervised, so it's not really going to be testing anything. The input can either be record I o protobuf or CSV. And again we need to tokenize that data first. Every document will just have counts for every word in the vocabulary for that document. So we're just going to pass in a list of tokens, integers that represent each word and how often that word occurs in each individual document, not the documents themselves. Same deal with neural topic model. And if you want to use pipe mode that's only supported with Recordio format for LDA. Again, it's unsupervised and it will generate however many topics you specify, just like with neural topic model. And that num underscore topics parameter is going to be the main dial that you want to adjust here. Optionally, you can pass in that test channel if you just want to score the results. The score comes back in terms of per word. Log likelihood is the metric that we use for measuring how well LDA works. So functionally it's the same thing as neural topic model. But under the hood it's a very different approach. It's CPU based not GPU based. So as a result it can be maybe a little bit cheaper and more efficient, since you don't need expensive GPU instances to train it. Again, number of topics is going to be the main hyperparameter that you care about that will control how coarse or fine tuned these topics will be that it generates. And again, these are not human readable topics we're talking about. They're just groupings of documents. So we're going to end up with however many num topics groupings that you specify. And it's kind of up to you to figure out what they really mean. Another important hyperparameter that's worth tuning with LDA is AlphaZero. Under the hood. That's the initial guess for what they call the concentration parameter. So smaller values will generate sparser topic mixtures, whereas larger values produce uniform mixtures. But you don't need that level of detail probably. Just remember that the number of topics is the main thing to tune with topic modeling. And in the case of LDA, we don't have all the deep learning stuff to tune. We just have this AlphaZero parameter again, CPU only for training. And furthermore it has to be a single instance, so can't parallelize the training of this. Just a single CPU node is all you need.

---

### Lecture: K-Nearest-Neighbors (KNN) in SageMaker

Next up is KNN, which is probably the world's simplest machine learning algorithm out there. K nearest neighbors. But SageMaker does take it to the next level. If you're not familiar with KNN and how it works, it's a really simple. Basically, you plot your data points in some sort of feature space, and for a given point, you just take the k closest points to that sample and return the label that occurs most frequently. So you're just looking at the k items that are most similar based on some distance metric from your point to the other points in your training data, and return the most frequent label from those similar data points. It turns out you can actually use KNN for regression as well, so it can do more than just classification. It's just a very simple twist on it. Instead of just returning the most common classification label from the nearest neighbors, you return the average value from whatever feature you're trying to predict. So yeah, no big deal. KNN very simple classification or regression algorithm. All it's doing is looking at the k nearest neighbors quite literally of your data point in some feature space. So you can give it a train channel that contains your data. The test channel can be used if you want to measure accuracy or MSE accuracy metrics for training. It can take record I, o protobuf or CSV for CSV. The first column would be the label data, followed by all the features, and you can use file or pipe mode in either case. So like I said, SageMaker kind of takes it to the next level. First, it actually samples the data, assuming that you have too much to deal with. KNN does have some scaling problems otherwise, and furthermore it does dimensionality reduction on that data as well. So if you do have a lot of features, it will try to boil that down first to avoid the curse of dimensionality. That way it becomes easier to compute those nearest neighbors if you're in a smaller dimensional space. This does come at the cost of noise inaccuracy, of course, so you know you want to be a little bit careful in how you do that. Under the hood it has a couple of options for that sign or fault or the options there. Once that's done, it builds up an index for looking up the neighbors quickly at runtime, and then serializes the model, and then you just query the model for a given value of k. How many neighbors do I want to look at before I get back the average value or the classification that I'm looking for? Obviously, the most important hyperparameter in KNN is K itself. How many neighbors do I look at tuning? That is kind of a science in its own. You kind of have to experiment and see where you start to get diminishing returns on higher values of k. Also, sample size is an important thing to tune here as well. Otherwise though, it's straight up KNN. If you've ever done machine learning before, you know what it's about. You can train it on either CPU or GPU instances, which I kind of find kind of interesting. You can actually take advantage of a GPU for KNN, so either an M5 dot two Xlarge or a P2 dot xlarge are recommended for training for inference, CPU or GPU, whatever you want. CPU will probably give you lower latency, but GPU will give you higher throughput. If you're trying to run KNN on large batches of data all at once

---

### Lecture: K-Means Clustering in SageMaker

Up next, K means another very common machine learning algorithm out there, and SageMaker provides it as well. And again, they take it to the next level. So what's K means all about. Well it's an unsupervised clustering technique. It's important to remember that KNN typically. And it's important to remember that KNN was technically a supervised technique where we're learning from the labels of the training data there and getting the nearest neighbors from those labels, right. K means, however, is unsupervised. So basically it's just going to take a look at your data and try to divide it up into ways that make sense in the feature space. The way it works is it divides your data into k groups. That's where the k and k means comes from, where each member of a group is as similar as possible to each other. So it's trying to find, you know, where these clusters are centered in your feature space and how to divide those clusters up. So it's up to you to define what similar means. How do I actually measure how similar two points are to each other? Often that's just a Euclidean distance in the space of normalized features. But you can make it whatever you want Really. So what SageMaker brings to the table is web scale. K means clustering. Doing this at large scale can be challenging because we have to look at every single data point in there and figure it out. So SageMaker brings to the table a way of doing this at very large scale. The training input. You need a training channel obviously to actually, you know, analyze your data. But since it is unsupervised the test channel is optional. That's only going to be used for measuring your results against some test data set that you might have. Now, when you do training and testing in SageMaker, you can specify how it's interoperating with S3. So for training you want to be using the sharded by S3 key flag when you're actually doing the training. And while you're testing you would want to use fully replicated. So this is just saying I'm actually going to copy all of my data from S3 to every single training node or not. In the case of training in this case, you don't want to copy everything over. If you want to scale better, you want to shard that data by the S3 key. So if you're going to be using multiple machines for training, that allows it to be a lot more efficient. The format itself can be either record I, o protobuf or CSV, and you can use file and pipe mode in either case. So how does K-means work under the hood? Well, we start off just like we would with regular K-means. We map every observation to n dimensional space, where n is the number of features. So you can picture this multi-dimensional space where every dimension is a feature. And we're basically measuring how similar observations are based on their distance in that dimensional space. The job of K-means is just to optimize the center of where those k clusters are, and we actually can specify in SageMaker extra cluster centers, which will further improve the accuracy. So the actual number of clusters that we want to end up with is little k. Here. The actual number of clusters that we end up working with big k is k times x, where k is the number of clusters we want to end up with. X is the extra cluster centers term. And we're actually going to be working with big K here, which is a larger set of clusters initially that we reduce down to the number that we want when we're done. So that's one little twist that SageMaker puts on things. It's actually using more clusters at the beginning of the process, and trying to consolidate that down to the number of clusters you want over time. Another extension that it has in the actual algorithm is the process of determining the initial cluster centers. So standard k means would just have you pick those initial cluster centers at random. But that can result in your clusters being too close together potentially. So to avoid that problem it's using something called k means++. In all k Means++ does is try to make those initial cluster centers as far apart as possible. So that makes the training work a little bit better. So we iterate over that training data, trying to calculate better and better cluster centers at each pass. At the same time, we're trying to reduce the clusters from big K, which takes those extra cluster centers into account down to little K, which is the actual number that we want to end up with for the number of clusters. If we're using k means++, it's specifically using something called Lloyd's method to do that reduction Important hyperparameters obviously k. Choosing the right value of k is tricky. Um. Often people use what's called the elbow method. So you plot the within cluster sum of squares as a function of k, and just try to find the point where larger values of k aren't really producing any benefit and go with that. You want to optimize for how tight your clusters are. That's what within cluster sum of squares is measuring. Also, you want to look at the mini batch size extra centre factor. That's that x parameter and the init method which will be the random or K-means plus plus as ways of tuning your k means model in SageMaker. For instance types. They do recommend CPUs for training here, although you can use a GPU instance if you want to. If you do use a GPU instance, remember only one GPU per instance may be used, so they recommend using a ML G418 Xlarge. In particular, if you want to use GPU acceleration for training for training or inference. They also support P-2s, P-3s, G4 and G4 instance types.

---

### Lecture: Principal Component Analysis (PCA) in SageMaker

We just have a few more algorithms to get through here, guys, so stay with me. Next up is PCA, which stands for Principal Component Analysis. PCA is a dimensionality reduction technique. So its job is to take higher dimensional data, data that contains a lot of different features or attributes into a lower dimensional space. That's easier to work with. So again, we're trying to avoid the curse of dimensionality, if you will. PCA is a way of doing that, a way of distilling your features down into a smaller number of features that might not represent a specific thing, but they represent something that's important to your model. Basically, we are projecting that higher dimensional data into a lower dimensional space while minimizing the loss of information in the process. That's what PCA does. So you can imagine, for example, a data set that has a bunch of different features, and we project that down to a two dimensional feature space, and we can end up with a 2D plot that maps those features down into the two most important dimensions that we care about for preserving the information in that data set. Those reduced dimensions are called components. So that's why we're talking about principal components. It's trying to find the principal dimensions within your higher dimensional space that really matter, and those dimensions may or may not align with existing features. You know, it's probably going to be somewhere, you know, within that space, but more or less orthogonal if it's going to be preserving information. Basically, the first component that gives you back will have the largest possible variability. So we're trying to capture the variance in your data in as few dimensions as possible. And the first component, the first dimension that we get back does the best job of capturing that variability in your data. The second component would have the next largest possible variability and so on and so forth. PCA is also cool because it's unsupervised. You can just throw it at some data set. You know you don't need to train it and it will distill that down into its fundamental components. What does it expect either record I, o protobuf or CSV data. And you can use file or pipe mode on either pretty much arbitrary data. So the way that it works under the hood is creating what's called a covariance matrix. And then it uses an algorithm called singular value decomposition or SVD to distill that down. It has two different modes of operation in SageMaker. One is regular mode, which is generally used for sparse data, or if you have moderate number of observations and features. But if you have a large number of observation and features, randomized mode might be a better choice that uses an approximation algorithm instead and scales a little bit better. The main hyperparameters for PCA are the algorithm mode like we just talked about, and also something called subtract mean, which has the effect of unbiasing the data up front, which can be obviously useful. For instance types. It can use either GPUs or CPUs. They're not very specific. In the SageMaker developer guide about how to decide between the two. It says it depends on the specifics of the input data, so you probably want to experiment with GPU and CPU instances for actually running PCA if you care about performance a lot. But again, the main thing to remember with PCA is that it's a dimensionality reduction technique. It can take data that has a large number of features and attributes, and boil that down into a smaller number of features and attributes. Again, those features and attributes aren't going to have names per se, but they will represent dimensions in the data that actually capture the variability of the data that you have effectively. So PCA is all about dimensionality reduction.

---

### Lecture: Factorization Machines in SageMaker

The next stop in our zoo of algorithms is factorization machines. So what are factorization machines all about? Well, factorization machines specialize in classification or regression with sparse data. What do we mean by sparse data. So an example that's often used for factorization machines is a recommender system. Why is a recommender system dealing with sparse data? Well, with a recommender system, we're trying to predict what pages or products or something that a user might like. But the problem is that you might have a huge number of pages or a huge number of products. Right? And an individual user does not interact with the vast majority of them. So we can't really have a bunch of data for training purposes that says this user liked this product but didn't like this product, and they liked this product and they didn't like this product. In reality, they're only going to have information for a very small number of products out of the entire product catalog. So that's why this is what we call sparse data. We only know a few things about each individual user, and it's up to us to try to figure out what they might think about all these other things that they didn't interact with, to try to fill in that sparsity. Up click prediction is another example of that, where an individual user or session probably will not interact with the vast majority of pages on the internet. However, um, you know, we have some information about a few pages. It's up to us to figure out which of these huge number of other pages might they click on next. So this is what we mean by sparse data. So this is a supervised method. And again it can do classification or regression. For example you might be saying I want to predict whether this person likes this product or not. Or you might want to actually do a regression of a specific rating value that they might assign to that item. It is limited to pairwise interactions. So as we'll see, factorization machines are talking about the factorization of a matrix a two dimensional matrix. So we need at least two dimensions here where one dimension might be users and another dimension might be items. For example. Again, getting back to the case of recommending items to users, the training data expects must be recordio protobuf format in float32 format. Because we're talking about sparse data, CSV isn't really practical. In this case, you would just end up with like this huge list of commas, because the vast majority of the items are not going to have any data associated with them for a given user. So CSV is a non-starter for this one. How does it work? So basically we're trying to model this thing as a giant matrix. So we could have a matrix that maps users to items. And it's filled up with, you know, whether they like these things or not or what their ratings were. And again, this is a very sparse matrix where the vast majority of those cells are going to be empty because most users have not rated most items. So our job is to try to build up factors of that matrix that we can use to predict what a given rating might be for a given user item pair that we don't know about. That's what factorization machines do. It's trying to find these factors of the matrix that we can use to multiply together to figure out. Well, given this matrix of a user's items that they liked, what do we think the resulting ratings would be for things they haven't seen yet Again, usually this is used in the context of recommender systems, so for the purpose of the exam, the main thing to remember is that if you're trying to pick an algorithm that's relevant to recommender systems, factorization machines is probably a really good choice to look at important hyperparameters. There are initialization methods for bias factors and linear terms, and you can tune the properties of each one of those methods individually. They can be uniform, normal or constant. Again, the details are probably not going to be important, but just for completeness, those are the main knobs and dials for factorization machines. It can use CPUs or GPUs. They actually recommend CPUs for factorization machine training GPUs are really only of benefit if you have dense data, and if you have dense data, not sparse data. You should be asking yourself, why am I looking at factorization machines in the first place? So again, key takeaways here. Factorization machines are all about dealing with sparse data, doing classification or regression on sparse data. It works on pairs of data. So user item pairs, user page clicks, things like that. And it's often used in the field of recommender systems.

---

### Lecture: IP Insights in SageMaker

And let's cover the IP insights algorithm in SageMaker. IP insights is all about finding fishy behavior in your web logs. So it's an unsupervised technique that learns the usage patterns of specific IP addresses, and it automatically identifies suspicious behavior from given IP addresses so it can identify login attempts from anomalous IP addresses. It can identify accounts that are creating resources from anomalous IP addresses. So basically it's used as a security tool as a way of analyzing your web logs for suspicious behavior that might cause you to flag something or maybe shut down a session. It can take in usernames and account IDs directly, so you don't really need to pre-process your data a whole lot. It has a training channel, obviously, but since it is unsupervised, the validation channel is optional. If you want, you can use that to compute an area under the curve score, which we talked about earlier. Remember the input has to be CSV data. And it's a very simple CSV file. It's just entity and IP address. So that entity again can be a username or an account ID or whatever identifier you use, followed by the IP address associated with that entity. That's it. Under the hood, it's using a neural network to learn latent vector representations of entities and IP addresses. So it's, you know, doing some pretty fancy modeling there to try to learn what specific IP addresses do. Those entities are hashed and embedded. So it has an embedding layer to like try to organize those IP addresses together. You need a sufficiently large hash size for this to work. So that's going to end up being one of our important hyperparameters. And it will automatically generate negative samples during training by randomly pairing entities in IPS. So that's kind of a neat little twist to the algorithm there. This is a case where we have an unbalanced data set right. So it's kind of like fraud detection where the vast majority of transactions are not going to be anomalous. So it actually generates anomalous examples by just randomly pairing together entities and IP addresses. And you know, those are random fishy things that probably are anomalous. So kind of a neat idea there. The important hyperparameters, the number of entity vectors, the hash size. That's all that is that we talked about earlier. They recommend that you set this to twice the number of unique entity identifiers. So a little bit of a manual step there. Also the size of the embedding vectors is given by vector dim. Something else you might want to tune to. Larger result there could result in overfitting. So something to be careful of there. And since it is a neural network under the hood, we have the usual suspects for tuning neural networks the number of training epochs, the learning rate, and the batch size. You can use a CPU or GPU, but since it's a neural network, GPUs are recommended. If you can, a P3 dot two xlarge or higher is recommended, and it can use multiple GPUs on one machine. The size of a CPU instance would depend on the parameters that you chose if you're going to go with CPUs instead. So again, main thing with IP insights, it's used to identify anomalous behavior from IP addresses using a neural network. That's the main takeaway
---

*Section 5 of 13 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*