<!-- Section 7 of 15 | Course: amazon-s3-deep-dive -->
<!-- Paste this after the MASTER_PROMPT and any previously uploaded sections. -->

## SECTION 7 OF 15: Securing Access to Your Data
**Course:** `amazon-s3-deep-dive`

---

### Lecture: Introduction to Securing Access to Amazon S3

Welcome to the next section where we're going to talk about securing access to your data that's stored in Amazon S3. Now, securing your data in Amazon S3 is of the utmost importance. First, it's going to protect our intellectual property. A lot of valuable data, such as things like intellectual property and sensitive business information, is going to be stored on Amazon S3. Any kind of data breach could lead to significant financial loss and a competitive disadvantage for your organization in the marketplace. Now, data security is also integral to maintaining customer trust. Now, with these data breaches becoming increasingly common, almost seems like every day ensuring data security in Amazon S3 is really going to be crucial to maintaining customer trust and safeguarding the reputation of your business. Now, of course, data security can also mean regulatory compliance depending on which industry that you're in. Many industries are required by law to secure customer data. Now, data security in S3 helps companies meet these legal obligations and really helps avoid all those potential penalties. Now, data security also helps us mitigate financial risks. The costs associated with these data breaches that we're talking about, including fines, notification costs, lawsuits, loss of business. It can really be crippling to organizations. So implementing a strong data security posture in S3 can really help mitigate those risks. And finally, digital transformation, everyone's favorite buzzword. As more and more organizations embrace this digital transformation, the volume of data stored in services like Amazon S3 definitely increases. Strong data security is really a prerequisite for successful digital transformation. As organizations continue to revamp their business and go completely digital in terms of providing services for their customer. So let's talk about Amazon S3 security. Now, in this course, I've broken up security topics into two separate topics. This section that we're talking about now is securing access to your data. And we're really talking about how to apply permissions object and bucket settings, access control, policy conditions, all of those different features that you would configure yourself in order to secure access to your data. Now, in the next section, we're going to talk about protecting your data. And that's a little bit different after you secured access to your data, determining who can access it, what groups is it publicly accessible? How do we actually protect our data when it's stored in Amazon? S3 So in that section, we're going to be talking about encrypting your data. We'll talk about data recovery, talk about replication versioning things, really focus on protecting your data. I've split it into two categories here, and we're going to be talking about securing access to your data in this section. Let's break it down and talk about the threats to data security in S3. Now, I would say one of the largest threats to data being stored in S3 is misconfigured buckets, misconfigured bucket policies, ACLs, all those good things. One of the most common threats by far to data security in S3 is going to be these misconfigured bucket policies which can leave data exposed and accessible to the public. You may want to make some data accessible to the public, but I would say the majority of people do not. And so we've seen time and time again that you've had all these data leaks. A lot of times in the media you'll see it called a breach or a compromise. Well, it's really that somebody has accidentally exposed data by mis configuring, say, an Amazon S3 bucket and made that accessible to the public by accident. So that is probably one of the number one reasons why organizations accidentally expose data. The second threat to security is access management errors. So incorrectly granting permissions, not removing old user credentials or just failing to manage roles correctly can lead to unauthorized access. Now, that could be unauthorized access within your organization. So you may have folks in your organization that, well, maybe they're accessing data that they shouldn't. Maybe it's HR related, maybe it's legal holds, maybe it's executive documents that shouldn't be accessed by everyone. Access management errors happen incorrectly. Granting those permissions to different users within your organization Insider threats is another threat to data security, whether it's due to malicious intent or negligence. Insider threats definitely pose a significant risk to organizations. Now, these may include employees, contractors, or just anyone with. Authorized access to your S3 data that's doing something with that data that they shouldn't do. So that's insider threats. Now, another threat is malware and ransom attacks. If an attacker is able to upload malicious software to an S3 bucket, well, they can potentially compromise data or hold it to ransom. Definitely something that we don't want to happen. And the last threat I mentioned on here are data leaks and accidental deletion human errors. Generally, it's going to be a human that's going to be configuring buckets. Now, you may be automating that with something like TerraForm or CloudFormation or something like that, maybe even the API. But human errors happen and sometimes those human errors cause accidental deletion of your data and that can lead to data leaks or loss of data which may significantly impact an organization. So here's just a number of different threats to keep in mind when we're going through this section and understanding how all these different features of securing our S3 buckets may come into play to help prevent these threats that we're talking about from happening within your organization. When we're talking about security in AWS in general, well, you're not alone. AWS plays a role in securing your data. So AWS has the responsibility for security of the cloud. They are responsible for securing things like storage paths, edge locations, their data centers, all that good stuff. This includes the protection of all the underlying infrastructure, like all the hardware, software and networking and facilities that run all of AWS services. Now you as the customer, have a responsibility of security in the cloud. And while AWS manages the foundation, you as the customer are responsible for security in the cloud. Now, this involves safeguarding your data, managing identities, access management and managing client side data encryption. Among other things, you are responsible for taking advantage of all the features and security options that AWS makes available to you. So we have this shared responsibility, and it's really your first step in mastering AWS. S3 security. It's between you and AWS. It's a cooperative effort where both and customers have roles to play in order to ensure complete security in AWS. So we take a look at the shared responsibility model here. AWS has responsibility of all the foundational components compute network storage, the data centers, the regions, all those good things. Now, in this case, of course, they have responsibility of managing storage, managing the AWS S3 platform. They are responsible for securing that platform as a whole. However, you as a customer are responsible for things like server side encryption. Amazon makes those features available to you and it's up to you to take advantage of configuring those. You as a customer are responsible for things like client side data encryption. If you want data integrity authentication, you as a customer must take advantage of the feature set that makes available to you in order to configure that correctly. Platform Applications, Identity and Access Management again things you are responsible for. And finally, customer data. Obviously, if you are bringing customer data to AWS, you have to be comfortable with using the security features that Amazon S3 provides you. If not, you can actually encrypt your data before you place it on S3 If you don't want to take advantage of things like server side encryption. Again, shared responsibility model takes care of part of it. You as a customer are responsible for the other half of it. Now, when we talk about securing access to your data, it's really a matter of managing permissions and leveraging the security features that the service offers. Your data security largely depends on proper management of things like permissions, ensuring that only the individuals that have access to the data are the ones that do have access to that data. S3 integrates with things like Iam, and that really enables you to set up user permissions and policies to control who can access your data and the actions that can perform with it, such as read, write, delete. ET cetera. Additionally, S3 also provides you things with ACLs and bucket policies to manage access to your S3 buckets and all the objects inside of them that offers you an additional layer of security. It also offers different layers of encryption options in order to secure your data at rest and of course in transit, which helps safeguard all that data from unauthorized access. And lastly, AWS provides logging and monitoring tools which are really crucial for detecting things like unusual activities. Establishing auditing logs and troubleshooting errors. And this really helps further fortify all this data security. So while we're going to mainly focus on security aspects that allow or deny access to your data, but you can use all these features and controls to create this really comprehensive security strategy for your data that you're going to be storing in Amazon S3. Let's talk about the basics of managing access now. Buckets and objects are going to be our primary Amazon S3 resources that we're going to work with. We've already learned about buckets and objects. By default, only the resource owner can access these resources. And the resource owner really refers to the AWS account that created the resource. So for example, the AWS account that you used to create a bucket and upload objects would own those resources. Now if you upload an object using an Amazon Iam user or role credentials, well the AWS account that that user or role belongs to will still own that account. A bucket owner can grant cross-account permissions to another account. So for example, users that live in a completely separate accounts and those users can upload objects to the bucket. Now, in that case, in the case that a user in another account uploads an object into a bucket, the AWS account that uploads objects own those objects. So if I have a bucket in my account and then I provide you with permission to upload objects into my bucket, whenever you upload objects into the bucket that lives in my account, your account would actually own those objects. Now, there are a few exceptions to that. So if the bucket owner pays the bills, the bucket owner can deny access to any of the objects or it can delete any of the objects in the bucket, regardless of who does own them. The bucket owner can also archive any objects and restore any archived objects regardless of who owns them. Really. Archival in this case refers to the storage class that's used to store our objects. So a little bit about basics of managing access. Remember, whatever accounts or user within that account uploads or creates an object, whether it's a bucket or objects in that bucket, that account is going to own the object itself or the resource. Let's see how we provide access to S3. So we've kind of broken out into resource based security and then we have user based security. Now under resource based security, we have things like bucket policies. These are bucket wide rules that are configured directly in the S3 console. Those apply directly to the bucket and you can write bucket policies to every single bucket that you want to and their bucket wide rules. We have object ACLs, which are fine grained controls that we can use to manage access. We have bucket ACLs, which those are also bucket wide rules that are configured directly in the S3 console. However, those were kind of deprecated a long time ago, so they're rarely used today and that's really the same with ACLs, but we'll talk about that. We also have a way to manage bucket ownership. We just talked about bucket ownership before. Remember when I said whoever creates the object, whether it's a bucket or it's an object, owns that object? Well, we can actually modify that. We can actually say, okay, I want the owner of the bucket to own all objects inside of the bucket. Regardless of who uploads that object, we do have that option. And finally, we have user based security. So the four on the left are really security features that are configured inside of Amazon. S3 Then if we want to control access to Amazon S3 resources using Iam, we can actually do that as well. We can use our traditional Iam policies to control what should be allowed for a specific user or a role directly from Iam. So we have that option as well. So these are all kind of the categories that we're going to talk about in this section and we're going to go over each one of these and showcase how each one of these helps us provide access to our resources in Amazon S3.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Block Public Access

The first feature that we're going to talk about in this section is called S3 Block Public Access. So what is S3? Block Public access? Well, it's a feature that's provided by AWS to help manage public access to our S3 resources. Now, when we set this up, we have settings for things like access points, buckets and complete accounts. Really starting in April 2023, Amazon is actually going to automatically enable S3 block public access, and by doing so, it disables S3 access controls for all new buckets. So what this really is going to do, it's going to set a rule on our account or individual buckets or access points to say no one can have access publicly to any of the resources in this bucket. So it can be a bucket wide setting, it could be an account level setting. It can actually be an organizational wide setting. And what this does is by selecting these rules, it will prevent things like bucket policies or ACLs from being able to make any of your resources publicly available to anybody on the Internet. That's what really S3 block Public access does. Now, again, if you're using AWS organizations, you can actually use a service control policy or an SCP to actually set up all these settings across all of your accounts. So you can use an SCP to say, you know what, I'm going to enable S3 block public access across all of my accounts. It could be hundreds of accounts. And by doing so, each one of those accounts will be limited in terms of what they can do in S3 in regards to making objects publicly accessible. So you can control that from an organizational level. So why is this important to our organization? Well, if you've been paying attention to any kind of media, it seems that S3 users are really struggling with the proper configurations in order to secure their buckets. It didn't take me long to find a lot of different articles on here about exposing or leaking data, and they were all related to just misconfigurations of Amazon S3 buckets. So that's why it's really important to understand how we can manage access to make our data publicly available. And it's important to understand the features that AWS provides us to ensure that, well, we don't accidentally make our data publicly accessible. So S3 Block Public Access was a feature that AWS added to Amazon S3 to help organizations from accidentally making buckets public and unintentionally leaking data by using S3 Block public access. We can simply click one check mark in our account and we can prevent any of our data from ever becoming publicly accessible across our accounts or in our buckets. So let's take a look at some of the features of Amazon S3 Block Public Access. Now, this is a graphic that I kind of stole from Amazon themselves, but I kind of redrew it. I added a little bit to it because the original one didn't have everything that I wanted. So if you look at the Block public Access feature, what it's going to do is override any of the other S3 access permissions to easily enforce a no public access policy. Now we can simply go to the console and we can set our block public access permissions directly in the console. Now, you can also do it through the CLI and the API of course, but it's super easy to turn on this S3 block public access if it's not already enabled. Remember I mentioned before starting in April 2023, all new buckets will have S3 block public access enabled. If you have created a new bucket, well it may already be enabled on that bucket. Now you can configure this S3 block public access at the bucket level, at the account level, or when you're using AWS organizations at the entire org level, very flexible in terms of where you can enforce block public access. Now the settings that you get with block public access include things like block public access granted by new ACLs, by any ACLs, block public access granted by new bucket policies or any bucket policies. And we're going to go through each one of these and that's why I'm kind of breezing through it. But all of these settings would apply to one or more buckets, again, depending on where you are configuring this block, public access. So if you configure at the bucket level, well, it's only going to apply at that one bucket. If you apply at the account level, it's going to apply every single bucket within that account. And of. Course at the org level. Maybe you have thousands of accounts and you've got tens of thousands of buckets. Well, these permissions can be applied to those tens of thousands of S3 buckets, just depending on where you want to manage it. Now, one thing to note here is Amazon S3 doesn't support block public access settings on a per object basis. It's only at the bucket level, which is kind of the lowest level. Again, accounts and org. Now, when S3 block public access is enabled, you cannot update ACLs or bucket policies that will include rules which would make an object or a bucket public. If you try to do that, you'll actually get an access denied error. So if you go and try to modify a bucket policy, which we're going to talk about later in this section, and you say, you know what, I'm going to include a bucket policy that basically allows anybody, maybe even people on the public Internet to access my data. Well, if you try to apply that policy, Amazon S3 is going to be like, you know what? I'm not going to allow you to apply that bucket policy because I have blocked public access enabled. And this policy would potentially allow the public Internet to access your data. So I'm not going to allow you to put that new policy in place if you are going to use block public access. But you do have some use cases where you need some data that's publicly accessible. What I personally would recommend is a separate AWS account in your organization that's specifically for public S3 buckets, and that's the only account where you have public buckets in there Everywhere else you want to lock it down. So let's take a look to see what this actually looks like in the console. I try not to include many screenshots in the console again because, well, AWS is constantly changing them. But this is what it looks like in the Amazon S3 console. This is going to allow us to edit our block public access settings for this account. So I'm doing this at the account level and not necessarily at a bucket level. So if you just click that top checkbox there where it says block all public access, well it's going to check all four of those other rules for us and we will not be able to have any objects that are publicly accessible in this entire account. So let's take a look at each one of these rules really quickly. The first one is block public access to buckets and objects that are granted through new access control policies. The key here is new access controls. Now, this option will disallow the use of new public bucket or object ACLs, and it's used to ensure that future put requests that include them will fail. So my example before, if you have this checked and then you tried to create a new ACL that would make an object public, well that put request of that new rule would actually fail. Now this rule does not affect existing buckets or objects. So again, the key word in this rule is new access controls. It doesn't impact any existing rules. Now, you would use this setting to protect against future attempts to use ACLs to make buckets or objects public. If an application tries to upload an object with a public ACL or, say, an administrator tries to apply a public access setting to the bucket, this setting would block the public access setting for the bucket or the object. So the next one at the bottom here is block public access to buckets and object granted through any ACLs. Now this option tells S3 not to evaluate any public ACL when authorizing requests, regardless if you have existing ACLs or new ACLs on there. Basically what happened is S3 will basically just not evaluate any public ACL when it authorizes the request. So that way it ensures that no bucket or no object can be made public using an ACL. Now this setting does in fact override any current or future public access settings for current and future objects in the bucket. So if you have existing ACLs in this bucket that provide public access to certain objects and then you go and check this box, it will indeed impact those ACLs and those objects will no longer be public. It will override those settings. So again, the key word to these ACL related rules, the top one talks about new rules moving forward. The bottom one will impact all rules. So any ACLs. Now, most of the time we're just going to check both of these. So let's look at the bucket policy related rules. The last two were focused on ACLs. The next two are focused on bucket policy. So the first one is block public access to buckets and objects granted through new public bucket policies. Again, the keyword here is new. So this option is going to disallow the use of new public bucket policies and it's going to be used to ensure that future put requests that include them will fail. So again, if this box is checked and then me as an administrator, try to go into Amazon S3 console and say, you know what, I'm going to place this new bucket policy, I'm going to edit the existing one or create a new bucket policy that enables either my bucket or objects to be public. Well, it's going to block that. Again, this does not affect any existing buckets. Our objects. This setting will ensure that a bucket policy cannot be updated to grant public access. Anything new moving forward? The second one here is block public and cross-account access to buckets and objects through any public bucket policies. So if you do check this box, access to buckets that are publicly accessible will be limited to only the bucket owner and the AWS services. This option can be used to protect buckets that have public policies while you work to remove the policies. It also serves to protect information that's logged to a bucket by an AWS service from ever becoming publicly accessible. Checking this box ensures that any of the objects in the bucket itself will be limited to the bucket owner and any services in that account. Those are your four rules that you have access to for S3 block public access and well, these are the recommended settings, check marks across the board there. Of course, if you just check the top one. There. It's going to automatically check the bottom one there. But unless you are 100% confident that you know how to manage public access for your objects, maybe you've gone through this course and you feel great. But if you are not 100% confident that you know how to manage public access, go ahead. Enable this block public access setting for your account. And in the future, if you do have a use case, maybe go ahead and create a separate account that just focuses on public buckets. That wraps up the lecture for S3 Block public access, and I'll see you in the next one.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Configuring Amazon S3 Block Public Access

All right. Let's talk about block public access. Now, we did showcase this earlier in the course when we talked about the bucket defaults, but we want to showcase two different things in this demo. Now, first of all, we're in the Amazon S3 console again, and the first thing we want to showcase is how we can configure this per account. So over here on the left, we have block public access settings for this account. Now, any time we modify this, this is going to apply to the entire account, and that means it's going to apply to every single bucket. So if we go in here and click edit, so if we go and enable block all public access, this is going to be for the entire account again, all current and future buckets. So we'll click on Save Changes here and we're going to confirm this, right? So click on confirm and we have enabled it. You can see it is on now. If we go back to our buckets now, if you go into an individual bucket here, so I'm going to click on our Amazon S3 deep dive bucket and we go to permissions here. And you can see we also have bucket settings for block public access. And one thing I want to showcase here is that block public access settings for this account are currently turned on because we just turned it on. However, note that if we change this for the bucket, if we disable it for the bucket, the account settings are still applied. All right, so even if we do edit here and uncheck this and click on Save Changes and confirm. And click on confirm here. Even though it's turned off, the account level settings still take precedence over this particular bucket. All right. So just because we disabled it for this bucket doesn't give us the ability to make things public. So if we were to modify our bucket policy and try to give access to things that were publicly available, well, we would get an error here. All right. So let's try that. Let's go over to our policies here and let's find our public access one. All right. So we're going to copy this and we're going to edit the policy here. And we're going to paste it in and I am going to go ahead and just give it a slash star here. And that will make everything in this bucket public because our principal here is our star and we say everything inside of our bucket. Now if we go down here and click Save changes, well, we get an error. It says your bucket policy changes cannot be saved because the problem is it grants a level of public access that conflicts with your block public access settings. So even if we were trying to modify individual buckets and make individual objects or the bucket itself public, even if we changed or turned off block public access per bucket, well, Amazon is still going to block us from making any changes to our policy that permits public access because the account level settings are going to proceed over top of our individual bucket settings. All right. So we cannot make any of our bucket or bucket objects public because we have set it on the account level. Okay? Now what we can do is we can change that. So obviously we can go in here and we can turn this off. And click on Save Changes and we'll confirm this. Confirm. And now what we can do is go back to S3 buckets and go into our bucket here. We'll go into permissions and now we can obviously set it per bucket, right? We can turn it on for this individual bucket. We can keep it off for this individual bucket. Right. And then what we can also do is edit our bucket policy. So we go down here and paste in our policy and that allows everything to be public. If we update this, do slash star and we hit save changes, well, it takes our bucket policy. All right. So now everything inside of this bucket can actually be viewed. And if we go ahead and click on an object avatar and we click on the object URL, well, wait, we still get an access denied. All right. Now, this is because of several reasons. Now, throughout the course, we've made several changes to this bucket that's going to prevent access to this image, even though we have made it public. Now, the first one, if you remember, was the requester pays right? We configured requester pays on this particular bucket. And remember, requester pays means that it turns off anonymous access to the bucket. So what we will do is go into edit and we'll go ahead and disable this and click on Save Changes. Now let's go back to our objects, click on Avatar and click on our object URL. And now we're also getting an error because we encrypted the object with KMS and it requires this version for signature. Now we of course don't have that because we're just accessing it in Chrome. All right. So if we go back to this object and we go down to properties and we find encryption and we change this, we can override the bucket defaults and we'll just say, okay, we want to use SSH dash S3 and click on Save Changes. Cool. We modified that. Now if we click on our object URL, our avatar dot PNG comes up. All right, so it is public. You can see that I'm just hitting the URL in Chrome and of course that means our block public access configuration is now working. And of course inside of our bucket, our permissions, which enables us to get any object inside of the bucket, is now working. Now of course, if we go to edit here and block all public access and click on Save Changes and confirm that and hit confirm. All right, go back to our objects, click on Avatar and click on this. Well, we get an access denied again because we are now blocked from making these objects public. So that showcases how we can modify the S3 block public access, both at the account level and how that affects individual bucket configurations. And of course we can configure individual buckets and if that's turned off, we can configure block public access per bucket level. And of course, if we turn it off, we can use a bucket policy and showcase how we can make individual objects public inside of our bucket.

---

### Lecture: Bucket Policies and Examples

The next topic that we're going to talk about is bucket policies. Now, bucket policies are really going to provide the option for us to grant permissions to our S3 resources. So let's take a look. So let's go over an introduction to bucket policies. Again, these bucket policies are a feature of Amazon S3 that allow us to grant permissions to Amazon S3 resources. And again, when I say resources, I mean buckets and objects. Now, policies are going to really be made up of different statements, and these statements can permit or deny actions for an Amazon S3 resource in the same account where you're creating it or cross-account access. You can have users within your account that are accessing the bucket, or you can use a bucket to provide cross-account access, meaning a user in another account. And that other account could be one of your accounts, or it could be my account, just depending on the security settings that you set up. Now bucket policies are going to be attached directly to an S3 bucket. You're going to go into S3 and modify or add your bucket policy, and these bucket policies will apply to all the objects within the bucket unless they're overridden by these object level ACLs that we'll talk about later. Policies can be used to control things like read and write, access delete. It can be used to restrict access based upon an IP address or a VPC. We can use policies to enforce SSL. We can use policies to determine what storage class we want different users to write to. There's a lot of different types of features within our policies that we can use to really provide fine grained control over what they can access inside of our bucket. Now bucket policies can be up to 20 K in size. If you compare that to our traditional Iam policies, which can only be five K in size, it's really four times as less bucket policies can be pretty large. So this size limit may be useful for you if you have large policy statements. Since these bucket policies are designed to gate access at the resource level, the increased size of the policy statement allows you to add many more controls to your policy. That's a reason why they were up to four times as large as a traditional Iam policy. Let's take a look at bucket policies. Meet the policy. These policies are written in Json. These policies are well, they're very, very similar, almost identical to your traditional Iam policies that you may be used to writing already. The purpose of bucket policies to manage access to your S3 bucket and the location directly attached to the bucket itself. So we're going to modify the bucket policy. We'll write on the bucket. So let's take a look to see what this looks like. Now, again, notice this policy statement looks quite similar to what a user might apply in an Iam role or user. This is the neat part about bucket policies is they allow the user to use the same policy statement format but apply for permissions on the bucket instead of at the user role. That's why we were talking about that. A bucket policy is a resource based security feature versus a user based feature because we're writing this policy directly on the bucket itself. So let's break down this one really quickly. First thing we have is the resource. What do we have access to? Well, in this case we have a bucket called Amazon S3 Deep-dive forward slash star. And the star applies to every object in the bucket, including any prefixes that we may have in that bucket. So the next one is the action block. And the action block is going to signify the set of actions that we're going to allow or deny. So in this case, we're saying, okay, the action is S3 get object, which is since read an object and also put object, which is the keyword for write. So in this case, if we were to apply this policy to a bucket, well, whatever user this applied to would be able to read anything in the bucket and it would also be able to write anything to this bucket. Now the principal block here really defines what account or user this applies to. Now, in this case, we just have a star here. A star indicates anybody, meaning public access. It can be unauthenticated users like users on the Internet, or it could be anybody inside of our account. Now, the effect block here will signify if these actions should be allowed or denied on the object itself so we can have either allow or deny here. Now, the SED up here at the top is just. Optional is just a descriptor for our rule here. So it's really an open string that we can write anything so you can make that meaningful for you if you want. That's kind of the anatomy of our bucket policy. Kind of broke it down and showcase all the different configurations here, all the different blocks or stanzas that make up our bucket policy. So with our example here, let's take a look. We have a bucket and our bucket is Amazon S3 Deepdive The region is US East one and then we have a user. This user wants to access our objects in our bucket and this user is at home now. In this case, this user does not have credentials for our account. So we need to ensure this user can access our bucket across the public internet. So in this case, we're going to take the policy that we just looked at and we're going to apply that bucket policy directly to our Amazon S3 Deepdive Bucket. And once we do that, the user will be able to access our objects or upload objects across the Internet without having to authenticate. So that's how this bucket policy is going to work and that's how we can make objects publicly accessible if we need to using a bucket policy. Now, of course, a bucket policy doesn't have to always make an object publicly accessible where we had the star back there for the principle, well, we can have roles, we can have our internal groups, we can have users, and we would only allow authenticated users within our account access to our bucket. So bucket policy can allow access to a bucket for our internal users, maybe members of our organization that can have access into our AWS accounts and bucket policies can also provide access to objects that are publicly available, meaning anybody can get access to it. So how do we develop bucket policies? Well, personally I like to use just Microsoft vs Code. You can use any editor of your choice there. Now, in this case, just showing what it looks like in VS code. I've got a couple different Json files here which are our bucket policies. I use the VS code extension called Prettier by the way, and that makes it a lot easier to manage all those open curly braces and brackets and things like that makes it easier to determine which ones are open, which ones are closed and all that good stuff. Now another place that you can go ahead and add bucket policies is, well, you can just develop them straight in the console if you want to. If you're in the AWS management console in the S3 console, well, when you are editing your bucket policy, you have an open text box and you can type them in right there. You can also use a sort of a tutorial or a wizard by clicking add new statement over there on the right. Now, the last place I want to showcase where you can develop bucket policies is this website and it is a policy generator. Now at the top there you see select type of policy. There are about 4 or 5 different types of policies that you can use. This policy generator to help you write, but one of them happens to be an S3 bucket policy. So if you are more comfortable using click ops, if you want to use something in the UI in order to create your bucket policy, maybe you're just starting out and you're just starting to understand how to write policies. That's totally fine. Everyone's got to start somewhere. It's probably where I started as well, but you can simply go down to step two and start adding your statements. Do you want this effect to be allow or deny you click the checkbox. What's the principle? Do I want to allow a specific user or a role in my account? You would simply add that there or do I just hit star there? And it's a policy that provides public access to whatever resources I'm going to add under actions. You can select that dropdown list and you can choose things like get object, put object list, object list buckets. It's got all of the API actions specifically for Amazon S3 for you to choose. And then finally at the bottom you can choose the Amazon resource name, the Arn of the resource that you want to manage access to our bucket, more than one bucket. You can actually put a bunch of different options in there if you want to. So if you have four buckets that you want to allow access to, you can add those arms down there at the bottom that are separated by a comma, and it would simply create your policy for you. So once you fill all that out, you hit add statement and it's going to create your policy for you. And once you hit finish, it's going to pop up a box. It's going to allow you to simply copy that. Then you can go into the AWS console and go into S3 and simply paste that inside of the bucket policy configuration. Again, three ways to develop. You can develop directly using your favorite editor. I like vs code. You can do it directly in the management console and the S3 console where you're going to edit the policy. Or you can use this policy generator here. We've talked a lot about policies, but what. Actions can actually allow. We saw two examples before where I had both git object and put object, and those are very common user based actions. So we have things like git object, put object, maybe list buckets, list objects, delete objects, create multi-part upload, upload part. Those are really common user based actions. I'm going to provide those permissions to a user or maybe even application in order to perform these functions. Now keep in mind I called it user based options because these are things that someone would do when they're interacting directly with an S3 bucket and not something that somebody would do if they were performing like administrative work on an S3 bucket. I didn't include Create Bucket or Delete Bucket or those kind of things. I'm only talking about common user actions that we would maybe apply to a bucket policy to allow a user or an application to do something with a bucket. Now the last thing I'll point out here is the URL down here at the bottom that showcases our Amazon S3 API operations. That's going to list out every single API action that we can perform on an S3 bucket. Again, on the slide. We're just showing common user actions here. So what about our effect options? We know what actions we can allow. Now what about effect options? Well, we have the option to allow or deny very, very simple here. Note that if you don't explicitly grant access to a resource like using an allow, access will be implicitly denied. If you don't go in there, say, Hey, this user in my organization has access to it. By default, that user will be denied access unless you explicitly grant access to that. Now, what about resources? Well, our resources, like we said, define the buckets, the objects, the access points and jobs for Amazon S3 resources that the policy will apply to. In this case, we're going to use the Amazon resource name to identify resources. Way back earlier in the course, we talked about the different types of object names that we may run into when we're working with AWS, specifically with S3, we talked about there's an Arn, there's different URLs, all that good stuff. In this case, we're going to use the Arn to identify the resources. Now you can list more than one resource in a policy. You just want to open a square bracket and you would have each one of your resources in quotes separated by a comma. So you would have as x x, you would have the first arn y y, you would have a second and Z, you would have a third arn in that case. Now, some examples of what the options may look like. The first one here is just a simple bucket applies to the bucket. So if you were to create a bucket policy and you just said Amazon S3 deep dive in there, well, it's only going to apply to the bucket itself. That's some of the actions that may apply to a bucket itself. May be things like list bucket or list buckets. So you can actually see the list of buckets in your account. It wouldn't necessarily apply to objects inside of that bucket. Now the next one is going to be the Amazon S3 deep dive forward slash star. Now that means it applies to all objects inside of the bucket. And finally at the bottom here, we have Amazon S3 deep dive slash Bryant Jpeg. If we were to put this inside of our policy, it's going to apply to a single object. Again, we can apply bucket policies that only apply to a single object. We can create a bucket policy that applies to all objects in the bucket or just a prefix. Or we can have bucket policies that apply directly to the bucket itself. Let's take a look at an example where we have a policy that provides access to a specific prefix. So this is a prefix based access policy. So it looks very familiar to our other one. We've got a set of allow access to dev objects. The effect is allow. Now notice our principle here is not a star. Now what we're doing is we're limiting access to a user called Brian in the account of 001234567890. We have our action of S3 get object and we have a resource in this case of just arn S3 Amazon S3 Deepdive slash development slash star. So in this case the user Brian in the account of 001234567890 would have access to get any object that's inside of the bucket named Amazon S3 deep dive that's inside of the prefix called development. Any file beyond development this user would have access to get that object. So let's take a look at one that's a little bit more complex here. So we've got our policy here. And in this case, what we have is multiple actions listed in our policy where before we just had get object. Now we have multiple actions. For our user Brian here. So we've got git. Object git bucket location list bucket list objects delete object. Notice that all those actions become a list of strings inside of our action block. And at the bottom here, we actually have multiple resources as well. So not only are we applying this directly to the bucket, but we're applying it to all the objects in the bucket itself. So again, a little bit more complex, not too crazy, but again, I want to showcase how we continue adding more and more to our policy to get more fine grained controls specifically for our bucket and maybe objects in our bucket and of course limit the actions that a specific user can perform on those resources. The next thing I want to talk about is adding a condition. Now a condition gives us the ability to grant permissions to our resources in S3, but provide even finer grained permissions than just what the actions provided us before. Before we had just git objects or list objects or put objects or whatever. Well, what if we wanted to restrict from a certain IP address? Maybe we want to only permit uploads through TLS. Maybe we want to restrict uploads to a specific storage class or even require a minimum version of TLS. These are things that we can use a condition for to not only permit users and roles access to our bucket, whether they're reading or writing, but also either provide finer grained controls based upon things like IP address and all that good stuff. So let's take a look at some of these examples to better understand it. So we've got our policy here. We've got our principle of Brian again. So we're just giving this one user access to our bucket. In this case, we just have S3 put object. And so we're only allowing this user to place objects, not even read objects. Now, in this case, if this user is going to place objects inside of our bucket called Amazon S3 Deepdive, but maybe we only want this user to place objects in our standard storage class. We don't want this user to use standard S3 because maybe this user has a specific use case for S3 and we want to save on costs. We want to say, you know what, this user can only upload objects into our bucket named Amazon S3 Deepdive, but only if they specify that the storage class is going to be standard, i.e. the user. Brian in this case for this account would have to specifically choose standard IA as the storage class when it's uploading. Remember when we talked about storage classes that Standard S3 is going to be our default. So this user, whether it's a API or CLI or just in the UI, this user would have to specify standard IA before this policy permits them to upload objects to the bucket. So that's limiting the storage class as an example. The next one is going to be enforcing secure communication. Now I don't know if you know this, but Amazon S3 actually supports both Http and Https connectivity by default, but maybe we don't like that. Maybe we want to make sure that all of our data is always encrypted in transit using Https, using a TLS certificate. So what we can do is we can write our policy like this. We can say, okay, you know what? You're allowed to write data to our Amazon S3 Deepdive bucket. However, if you come to our bucket on a non secure protocol, then I'm going to deny that upload. You must come to me using Https. That data must be encrypted using TLS. So you can see that we have two rules here. The first rule at the top here is going to deny any actions on our bucket that are not using a secure protocol. And the bottom one is going to allow us to put objects into our bucket, getting a little bit more complex, but more finer grained controls here. So the next one we want to look at access based upon object tags. So in this case, again, still working on a single user here again where it says principal and the one user, you can have users groups, you can have roles there, you can have anything inside of your account to provide access to it. Again, the action here is S3 get objects. So that means we're going to read objects inside of our bucket named Amazon S3 Deepdive. However, we only have permission to read objects that include a tag of environments with a value of development. Maybe in this case, Brian is a developer on our team and we say, You know what? You can access our bucket, but you can only access data that has been tagged with environment of development. If there happens to be data in that bucket that says environment, production, environment, QA, environment, whatever, they would not be able to read that. It would only be able to get objects that are specifically tagged with an object tag of environments with a value of development. Again, this one is access based upon object tags here. The last one here is a little bit different. We're still playing around with conditions, but in this case this is user based security restriction. Now the examples I've showcased already are all bucket policies. Those are resource based security where we are applying those bucket policies directly to an S3 bucket. In this case, this is a user based security where we are applying this Iam policy directly to a user or a role in Iam and not necessarily in S3. So keep that in mind. Now this one actually allows us to create a bucket. The user can create a bucket, but only if the bucket is created in US East one. So it has a location constraint here. Again, this is not a bucket policy. It would be applied to a user whether you are a role logging in through Amazon CEO or you're just a user logging in as Iam or something like that. If you have this a policy applied to you, you would be able to create buckets, but only if that bucket lives in US East one. So again, another example of a condition. Just wanted to make sure that I provide a bunch of examples in this course for you. That way, if you are going to your own environment, you say, You know what, I need to provide finer grained controls for my organization. I want to provide plenty of examples for you that you can pick up and use immediately. By the way, all of these policies are committed directly to my GitHub that's attached to this lecture. Go ahead and go to GitHub, grab the code, don't try to copy it or retype it from the slide. Go to GitHub, grab the code, use that as a good starting block for your own policies. So that wraps up everything around bucket policies. Of course we're going to showcase this in AWS and next we're going to move over to ACLs, so I look forward to seeing you in that lecture.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Bucket Policies

All right. In this demo, we're going to play around with bucket policies and see how they apply to our users. So we're in the Amazon S3 console here. But what we want to do is we want to start at Iam because we want to start working with our user. So I'm going to go over here, I'm going to go find Iam. Now in this account I have a user and this user is just called Doug and this user currently has no policies attached to him. So this user has absolutely no permissions inside of AWS. Now what we want to do is showcase what happens when this user logs into AWS. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go open up a new incognito window and I'm going to grab the Iam. Address from right here and we're going to plug that into our chrome. All right. And then I can log in as Doug's account. So, Doug. And put it into password here and we hit enter. All right, cool. So what we can do is we can just go to S3 and let's see what happens. And we go to buckets and we don't have any permission to list buckets. All right. We can't do anything really in this account because we don't have any permissions. So first things first. Let's go ahead and give Doug at least permissions to list our buckets. So we'll go back over here. And what we're going to do is create a new policy. So I'm going to do create policy. And just for the fun of it, we'll just use the policy editor here just because it's fast. So I'm going to click on S3 right here and then I'm just going to give all list permissions for our user and we'll go down here. I'm going to click any any and I'm going to click next, and then I'm going to give this policy a name. S3 dash list only. All right. And I'll scroll down. We have full list and that's it. We don't have read. We don't have anything else. So we have our new policy. Let's go back to our user, Doug, and then what we're going to do is we're going to add permissions. We're going to attach the policy directly. I'm going to type in S3 and then we're going to scroll down and find our S3 list only hit next and add permissions. All right. So our user, Doug, now has just the one policy attached to it called S3 list only. And of course, if you expand that, we only have list permissions on our buckets. All right. So let's go back over to Doug and we're going to refresh the screen here. And now you can see, hey, we can actually see our buckets now. All right. So if we click into our Amazon S3 dive, you can see that we can list our objects, right? We've got our objects we've been working with. Now, if I click on Avatar dot PNG and I click on Open, well, we get an access denied, right? Because we can only list. We cannot read our objects that are inside of our bucket. So we can actually do is if we don't want to change that with our Iam policies, we can actually apply a bucket policy in order to do that. So what we can do is we can modify our bucket policy to enable that. So let's go back over here and I'm going to go to S3. I'm going to click on our Amazon S3 Deep-dive bucket here. I'm going to click on Permissions and you can see that I did go ahead and move that block public access policy in here so we don't have a bucket policy at all. So I'm going to click on edit. And now what we want to do is provide a bucket policy that gives our user Doug actually more permissions. All right, So what we can do is go over to VS code here and I've got it pre-written out, but we can take a look at it. We've got two sets of permissions in here. Allow, read, write. So effect is allow. Our principal is actually our user. Doug All right. So to comply directly to our user, the action is S3 get object, S3 put object and the resource is simply our Amazon S3 Deep-dive bucket. Like anything inside that bucket, we can read and we can upload objects. Now, the other rule that we have is specific to looking at the bucket, right? So list bucket. Actually, we don't really need this anymore because we provided the Iam policy already to Doug, but we'll just leave it on there for now. All right. So I'm going to select everything and we're going to go back over here and we're going to paste this into our bucket policy. Again, same exact policy. We have our user, Doug, give him access to get object and put object any object inside of our bucket. So I'm going to scroll down, I'm going to click on Save Changes. And now we have added our bucket policy. Now let's go back over to our user, Doug. We're going to refresh the screen again. All right. So again, we already know that we can list objects for Doug because our Iam policy permits that if we click on Avatar dot PNG again and we click on open look at that, we actually can view and get the object inside of our bucket. So this is a combination of using Iam policies to just list things, but then we can also modify the permissions inside of our bucket directly. It's a resource based policy to allow certain users to access our objects directly inside of a bucket policy. So we're going to close that out and just to showcase that our user doesn't have any additional permissions, what we can do is go back over here, go back to Iam. Go to our user, go to Doug. And then again, we only have our list only, right? So this list only policy would not permit us. We go into our bucket and we go to permissions and then we go delete our bucket policy from our bucket and say delete. And then what we'll do is we'll go back over to Doug, go to Buckets, we'll refresh it. All right. We should still have lists because it permits us to list. But if we go into here and click on Avatar and now do open. Now we're back to Access Denied. All right. So showcasing how we can combine both Iam and our S3 bucket policies to permit or deny access to certain objects inside of S3.

---

### Lecture: Access Control Lists (ACLs)

This section, we're going to dive into access control lists a little bit. So before I get started, I just want to notate that ACLs are legacy in Amazon S3. Now Amazon recommends that you disable ACLs on your S3 buckets and you use what's called object ownership instead. So rather than using ACLs, if you need to dictate who owns different objects inside of your bucket, you would use object ownership instead. If you need to modify permissions on your bucket rather than using ACLs, well you should be using bucket policies. So in fact ACLs are so legacy that in April 2023 Amazon actually started disabling ACLs on all new buckets by default. So in this section we're not going to dive too deep into ACLs because it is a legacy concept. However, I just want to make sure that you understand what they are and where they are used. Now, when you're using what's called object ownership, which is going to be a topic of discussion shortly. ACLs are going to be disabled and bucket policies again should be used to control access to your Amazon S3 resources. Now there still may be some specific use cases where an ACL is required. An example of this is granting permissions to certain AWS services like CloudFront. You may still need an ACL to do that. So that's why I want to make sure I discuss ACLs at a high level, but we're not going to go super deep like we did in bucket policies. So what are ACLs? It's important to understand what they are. Well, they're access rules that are attached to every bucket and every object, very similar to bucket policies. Now ACLs determine who gets access and what kind of access they have to that resources. There are two flavors of ACLs. We have bucket, ACLs and object ACLs and just by the name you could probably gage on what they are used for. Obviously bucket ACLs are applied to S3 buckets where object ACLs are applied directly to individual objects inside of a bucket. Each ACL clearly defines the permitted AWS accounts or the groups that have access to that resource. Now when you are using ACLs, you can actually still use bucket policies and in fact you can use them in tandem if you need to. When you're using both of them together, the principle of least privilege is always going to apply. We're going to have an implicit deny on our policies. That means if you do not explicitly grant access through a bucket policy or through an ACL, well, your access will be denied. An explicit deny inside of our ACL is going to overrule and allow every single time, anytime we specifically say this person or this group or this role is denied, well, it's going to be denied even if a bucket policy permitted that access. Now, if an Iam policy gives a thumbs up, but the bucket policy does not, well, the access is going to be denied. Again, an explicit deny always overrules and allow if there are no rules that allow access. Well S3 is going to default to deny we have that implicit deny. The golden rule to remember here is that if there is no deny specified and at least one rule will allow the action, well then the access will be granted. If you have an Iam policy or if you have a bucket policy that say, yes, this user can perform this action against this resource and there's no deny on the ACL side, then that user will be able to perform that action on the resource. Let's take a look at the order of operations. When we do have a combination of ACLs and bucket policies, we're going to start with a deny. The decision always starts a deny because we have that implicit deny. Then what we're going to do is evaluate all of the applicable policies. That means bucket policies, Iam policies and ACLs. If there's an explicit deny in there, well, we're going to go to an immediate decision of deny. If there's not an explicit deny and we evaluate the policy and say, okay, well do one of these policies allow this action? If it is Well, the final decision is allow if there's no allow in there, we get to that implicit deny in the final decision is deny. We have to remember we take the culmination of our Iam policies, our bucket policies and our ACLs. We're going to evaluate all those policies and we're going to walk through this workflow. Is there a deny in there? Okay. Well, you get denied. There's no deny, but. Is there an allow? Okay, there is an allow. Cool. You can go do what you need to do, but if there's no allow, we get to that implicit deny where you say, okay, if there's no explicit allow, then you're going to be implicitly denied. So the decision is denied. So that's the order of operations that you would follow if you have an ACL. Now, in the lecture, we're not going to go through all the details around ACLs again because they are legacy. However, we will jump into a lab and I'll showcase where you would configure ACLs and I'll go ahead and showcase how we add an ACL to one of our buckets or objects there, just so you understand where to do it. But again, we're not going to dive deep into understanding ACLs because it is a legacy construct for Amazon S3.

---

### Lecture: IAM Policies

Beyond all those resource based security features that we talked about before with bucket policies and ACLs and block public access and all that good stuff. We're going to also talk about securing S3 with Iam policies. Now, this is going to be a very short lecture. I'm just going to quickly showcase what we would do here. But if you prefer to manage your permissions for Amazon S3 buckets in your resources through Iam users or roles, well then you can simply use Iam policies to manage your S3 access. This is in place of using bucket policies or ACLs or anything like that. You would simply use Iam policies to manage S3 access. So again, when you're doing that, this is focus on user based security rather than our resource based security. So we are applying the policies, whether they're an allow or deny directly to our users versus configuring them directly on the bucket. These can be used together. So you could grant some access through an Iam policy and grant some access through a bucket policy if you want to. But I'd recommend choosing one or the other to really simplify operations. Now we're not going to go into too much detail on this one because well, we're pretty much using the same policies. But now we would apply those policies in Iam versus applying those policies inside of the S3 service console. So again, if you want to use Iam policies to manage that, you can do that. Simply go and create your policies on your users or roles or whatever you're using inside of Iam to permit the same access that we've gone over in bucket policies to your users. But again, focus on user based security rather than resource based security. So that's all we're going to do in that we are going to go ahead and jump into AWS and showcase how we would permit access using Iam. But that's about it because we've already gone over all of the policies and some examples.

---

### Lecture: Demo - IAM Policies

All right. Back in the console, we're going to showcase how we can use this iam policies to manage permissions for S3 buckets and objects inside of those buckets. So back in S3, let's go ahead and look at our deep dive bucket here, look at permissions. And we still have a bucket policy applied here. Let's go ahead and get rid of that. So I'm going to click on delete and we're going to delete that because we want to manage everything through Iam. All right, so let's go back to Iam. Click on this. All right so we're in Iam let's go ahead and create a new policy that we will assign to our user. Doug So I'm going to go to policies here. I'm going to create a new policy and in this case, instead of using the policy editor, I'm going to use Json. So I'm going to click on Json. So let's go over to VS code and let's grab our policy here and we'll go back, we'll paste that in and we will check it out. So the first thing I have is just list Bucket, we have S3 list Bucket and we have our specific bucket here. And then our next part allows access to our objects. We have S3 get object, S3, put object and S3 get object tagging and that of course is on any object inside of our bucket. All right. So if we click on next and then we're going to scroll up, we're going to give it a name, so I'm going to call it S3 policy for Doug. And then we'll scroll down and click on Create Policy. So now we have our new policy called S3 Policy for Doug. So let's go over and add our new policy to our user. Doug So go to users, click on Doug here and you can see we still have our old policy on there. So we're going to click on that and do remove and yes, and then I'm going to add permission. I'm going to choose attach policy directly. I'm going to I'm going to filter it down. Just type in Doug and select our policy we just created next and add permission. So now our user, Doug, has our new policy called S3 User for Doug. So let's go back over to the console where Doug is at and we're going to refresh the screen here and we're going to click on buckets here and wait a minute, we don't have permission to list buckets. I thought we added list buckets. Well, let's look at our policy real quick. We only allowed list buckets for a particular bucket. We didn't allow list all my buckets permission. All right. So we only have the ability to look at this one bucket. Not everything. So if you go over here, we don't get a list of everything because we don't have the permission. You can see right here, S3 lists all my buckets action. However, because we did add the permission for that one bucket, one cool thing we can do is actually go up here to the URL and after buckets, if I type in Amazon S3 deep dive and hit slash and hit enter, well, we actually can see our one bucket because we do have the permission to view this one bucket. We don't have permission to view any other buckets. So that is obviously one way we could do it. Now, obviously the other way would be to go in here and add the resource, change that to star, and you can say list all my. Buckets, right? So we could change our policy to this and we would be able to see all the buckets in the account. But we'll leave it at this for now. All right. So based upon Iam, we know that well we should be able to get any object in this account. All right, so we click on course cover for example, here and click on Open. Uh oh. We got another issue right. Our policy does not allow access for us to use the KMS key that's being used to encrypt our objects. So when you're using AWS and you are using KMS to encrypt your objects at rest, well, the user must also have the ability to decrypt objects using that key. So you need the ability to decrypt using that KMS key. All right. So let's go ahead and fix that really quick. I'm going to close this out. We'll go over to Iam and we'll modify our policy again. All right, So I'm going to click on S3 policy for Doug and go ahead and open that up. Click on Json. We're going to click on edit. All right, So what we're going to do is add the permission for that KMS key. So in here, we already have one set of rules. We have another set of rules. All right, So what I'm going to do is just going to copy this, just make it a little bit faster, put a comma here, copy that out. Of course, the formatting is crazy, but that's okay. Now what we need to do is allow and the Ssid is just describing you don't have to actually add it, but allow access to the KMS key. Decrypt. All right. Now allow now the action that we actually want is KMS and we're going to add a few of them on here. We're going to do describe key. All right. And we're going to have a couple of actions here. So we're going go ahead and put it inside of a string and the next one is going to be kms decrypt. All right. We're going to add that. And because we have the ability to put objects, well, we must also be able to use the KMS key to encrypt. So we also need KMS encrypt at this point. All right. So after that, we're going to go ahead and close out our list of strings here. All right? And we'll put a comma here and we should be good to go. Right? So we have added the new rule here for allowing access to use the KMS key. We're going to describe the key. We're going to do encrypt and we're going to be able to do decrypt. However, the resource here should be our KMS key. So we need the key Arn So if we go back over to AWS, it should be easy. If we scroll down here, you should be able to find it right here, all right. Under the encryption rather than having to go into the KMS service. So I'm going to copy that and then we will paste that right in our resource. So we'll be able to use this particular key to describe the key, to use it to decrypt and to use it to encrypt. All right, so that's all that we need in order to use the KMS key. So I'm going to click on next, I'm going to click on Save Changes. And we have added that. You can see we have S3 permissions and we have the KMS permissions. So let's go back into Doug and we're going to refresh the screen again. So again, we're back at the course cover object and let's open it and look at that. We get access to the course cover for this course. All right? So that means we can actually use that key to decrypt the object and actually view it. And obviously the Iam permissions are permitting us to perform the get as well. All right. Now remember that this S3 bucket does not have a bucket policy. All right? And we can't even see the bucket policy because we don't have permission. But if we go back over here into S3. And we click on Amazon Deep Dive and we go to and we go to permissions. You can see that we do not have a bucket policy. And that means that all of the permissions for our user, Doug are being driven by our Iam policies. All right. So hopefully that was useful for you to understand how you can easily assign Iam policies to users to permit them certain actions inside of S3 And of course you can limit to a certain bucket, you can limit based upon tags, you can limit based upon an IP address or anything like that. You can use those conditions that we talked about and you can write policies in order to restrict access to certain objects and buckets inside of your account.

---

### Lecture: Object Ownership

Let's talk about object ownership and where we would use that. Now, inside of S3, each object inside of our S3 bucket has an owner associated with it, and this owner has complete control over our object. Now, most often the object owner is going to be the AWS account that uploaded the object. So in the example down here, we have an S3 bucket. We've got three objects inside this S3 bucket. We have Brian Jpeg, customer, PDF and sales dot PDF, and I went ahead and put the owner on there. So you see Brian Jpeg, the owner is an account called 346512, whatever, same account owner for the customer pdf. But in this case sales dot pdf is actually owned by another account, so maybe this bucket lives in account. 346512894502. And local users of this account have uploaded these objects where the square and the triangle. However, maybe this bucket has a bucket policy attached to it that permits users from another account to upload data into this particular bucket. So when that object is uploaded from a user or a role that lives in another account, then that account actually owns the object inside of that bucket. Now that we understand that, let's talk a little bit more about object ownership. So what does it actually do for us? Well, if we enable the feature called object ownership on a bucket, it will actually go ahead and take ownership of every object in the bucket. That's regardless of if local users upload objects or users from another account. Upload objects inside the bucket. Now the bucket owner owns every single object in the bucket and it can exclusively manage objects using our bucket policies. So we have a couple options to control ownership of our objects. So the default is just bucket owner enforced. ACLs are going to be disabled when we enable this and the bucket owner automatically owns every object that is uploaded into that bucket. Now the next object here is bucket owner preferred. The bucket owner will own new objects that other accounts write using a canned ACL attached to the bucket. The ACL is simply bucket owner full control. So what Amazon's going to do for us is going to go ahead and create an ACL for us on that bucket and the ACL simply bucket owner full control. Now the last one here is Object Writer. Now this is kind of what we talked about before, where it means the AWS account that writes the object will own the object and have full control over it. If we have a bucket that has multiple objects in there and most of the objects are written by the local account, but we have other accounts that are also writing data into that bucket. That data will be owned by the account that wrote that data or uploaded it to that bucket. So we do have multiple options to control ownership when we're talking about object ownership in S3. So it sounds cool. Where do we actually set this up? Well, it's super easy when we actually set up or create a new bucket in Amazon. S3 there's an option to set up object ownership when we do that. However, if we have an existing bucket, well, we can go into the properties of that bucket and we can actually configure object ownership on that existing bucket. Now, one thing to note that if you have an existing bucket that may have some ACLs in there, remember when I said when we enable object ownership, it disables ACLs? Well, if you have some ACLs on that bucket, you must migrate those ACLs to something like bucket policies or something else that provides that functionality because again, ACLs will be disabled when we configure object ownership. So you can enable it when you create a new bucket or if you have existing buckets, you can go modify that bucket and go ahead and enable object ownership on that bucket as well.

---

### Lecture: Making Objects Publicly Accessible

The last part of this section is I wanted to talk about making objects publicly accessible. Up until this point, we've talked about, well, how not to make objects publicly accessible. But there are cases where buckets need to be public or objects inside of a bucket need to be public. So what does it actually mean to be public? Well, it means that objects that are placed inside of our Amazon S3 bucket are accessible by, well, anyone on the Internet, anyone who has an Internet connection and anyone that knows the URL. Anyone in the world that has that URL for your bucket or your object, well, they will be able to access that data that's stored in your bucket without having to authenticate directly to your Amazon S3 account. So keep that in mind that if you do mean to make data public, anybody in the world will be able to access that. Now, one thing to keep in mind is while there are specific use cases where public buckets are necessary, such as things like static website hosting or public data sets, it's generally advisable to keep your buckets private and carefully control access using the appropriate mechanisms like Iam policies, ACLs or bucket policies to help ensure data, confidentiality, integrity and availability for your organization. Now making a bucket public exposes the content to anyone with a bucket URL. As I mentioned before, now if you accidentally do this again, it can lead to unauthorized access, data breaches and potential misuse of sensitive or confidential data that's stored inside of that bucket. Publicly accessible buckets are more susceptible to malicious attacks, data leaks, unauthorized modifications and obviously just viewing data that they shouldn't view. So depending on the nature of the data that's stored in your S3 bucket, there also may be legal or compliance requirements that mandate strict control over access and ensure data privacy. Publicly exposing things like sensitive or regulated data can ultimately lead to violations of these data protection regulations that your organization must abide by industry standards or your contractual obligations to your customers. All right. So let's understand why I would actually need a bucket to be public. So I have a couple examples of here. Well, the first one is static website hosting. Now we're going to talk about that in this course. So if you want to host a static website using Amazon S3, well, you need to make that bucket public. People on the Internet need to be able to access the data or the files that are stored in that bucket in order to access your website. These users can directly access it and view your website's HTML, CSS, JavaScript or whatever static files are going to be stored inside of this bucket as part of your website. Now, the next one here, maybe public file sharing. If you want to share files publicly and provide download links to users, you can definitely make a bucket public to do this. Now, again, this allows anyone with the link to access and download the files without requiring authentication. Again, maybe you want to purposely do that to, I don't know, allow customers to download your software. Maybe you're a software company and you want customers to download your software so they can use it. Maybe you have example code on there, maybe you have some data sets or something like that that you want, that you want the public to be able to download and actually consume. And you're totally fine with that. That may be a reason why you make a bucket public. The next 1st May be content distribution and making your bucket public can be useful for distributing publicly available content such as things like images, videos, documents. By allowing this public access, you can serve these files directly from the bucket without additional authentication requirements. And finally, the last one here I mentioned before, public datasets. You know, in some cases you may want to make certain datasets or files publicly accessible. I don't know, maybe for research or analysis or collaboration purposes. Again, by making the bucket public, you can provide open access to this data for authorized users. Now, it's important to note that you should exercise caution when making buckets public to avoid exposing sensitive or confidential information. I can't stress that enough. Always ensure that you have reviewed and understand the security implications before making a bucket public and consider implementing additional security measures such as access restrictions or encryption depending on your specific requirements. So again, up until this point through this course, we've talked about how to protect your data. In this case, there are reasons why you would want to make a bucket public or the content inside of that bucket public. Just make sure you understand the security implications of doing so. What are the prerequisites? Well, first of all, S3 Block public access must be disabled. We talked about this feature before, and that's the whole point of using that feature. We don't want our buckets public. Well, in this case, maybe we do. We need to go ahead and actually disable. Some of those features in order to allow us to create a bucket policy that permits access to our bucket. The next thing is our bucket policy, as I just mentioned. The bucket policy is either created or update to permit public access to our resources. Now you can configure this with ACLs if you need to, but I recommend to use the bucket policies because again, ACLs are a legacy construct. So we want to stick with bucket policies instead. So what does a public bucket policy look like? Well, we saw this example before, but we have the principle here, which is star. And the star means anybody. It means anybody in the world can access this data. In this case, we only want to read the object because what would we ever really want the entire public to just write data to our bucket? No, probably not, because, well, we're probably going to get a lot of data on there that we don't want, and it's going to cost us a fortune on our bill. So we never want to put an S3 put object in there for our public facing buckets. It's always going to be like get object or maybe even list object, but most likely it's going to be just get object. And finally, the specific resource and this particular example, I am only allowing access to a single object inside the bucket. In this case, I have a cat.jpeg object inside of my bucket and I'm making that one cat.jpeg publicly available. If you need the entire bucket to be public, you would simply have just the bucket name slash star and then you can access anything inside of that bucket. But again, this is just an example of showcasing how we can provide access to only a single object. Hopefully that was helpful for you to understand how you can actually make a bucket or the objects inside of a bucket publicly accessible. Again, be very, very careful on doing this. Make sure you understand the security implications of doing this. Make sure you're very careful about what access you're providing and what data that you are making available publicly to everyone in the world. That's it for this lecture, and we'll see you in the next one.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Making Objects Publicly Accessible

All right. Welcome back to the AWS Management console, where we're going to work on making some of our objects and our buckets publicly accessible. Now, back in the Amazon S3 console here, and if you remember earlier in the course, we created two buckets, right? I have the Amazon S3 deep dive and we created the Amazon S3 deep dive public. So we're going to work with the one for public. So I'm going to go into here and we don't have any objects in here, so we need to go ahead and add some objects. So let's go over here and grab some of our PNG images that we created earlier using the AWS Sync Command. And we're just going to drag them over here and we're just going to go ahead and upload them and leave them as is. So they should be relatively quick to upload and we're already done. So we'll go ahead and close that out. So we have five objects inside of our bucket. Now, if you look at our permissions, our bucket policy is basically empty and we have block all public access turned on. So it should go without saying that we will not be able to access these objects right now. Access denied. All right. So the first thing we need to do is we need to add a bucket policy that allows us to see all of our images publicly. All right. So I'm going to click on permissions here. And what we're going to do is modify our bucket policy. So I'm going to click on edit. And what we'll do is we'll go back over to VS code. I've got a policy over here and we'll go ahead and use that and we'll take a look at it. So right now, the policy that we're going to look at is allow public list. The principal is star, which means anybody on the Internet, the action is right now just list bucket and the resource is simply our bucket, right? Amazon S3 Deepdive public. So if we go down here and save changes, oh, we get an error, right? We don't have permission again. Block Public access is preventing us from making this change. So let's go ahead and cancel this out. We'll go down here and we'll turn this off. So I'm going to uncheck this now since we're only going to be using bucket policies, I'm going to go ahead and check the ACL. Right. To make sure that we can't grant access to any objects using ACLs. We can only do it through our bucket policies. All right. So I'm going to leave those two unchecked. I'm going to click on Save Changes and we're going to confirm this change. Click on Confirm. And there we go. We've got that set up now we can go back into our bucket policy. Edit Go ahead and paste this in. And again, we are not doing a get object. We're only doing list object right now. All right, So we'll go down here, click Save Changes and it allowed us to provide that. All right, so here is our bucket policy. Now, if you go over to our objects and click on our object and see, oh, wait, we still get an access denied. And that's because we added list bucket and not specifically get object. However, since we did add list bucket if we go up here to the URL and take off the object name and hit enter well we get this pretty XML file and if you take a look at it a little bit closer, it's actually listing out the contents of our bucket. Right? We have key Avatar dot PNG Key S3 Bucket Logo S3 Bucket logo with objects color. Right Here are all the PNG files that exist inside of our bucket. You can see the display name of my account. You can see when it was last modified and you can also see the size and the storage class of each of these objects. All right, so we provided list access to our bucket, but it doesn't mean that we can actually obtain or get our objects right, view our objects. So if we go back, let's modify our bucket policy so we can actually see some of our objects. So we'll go back into permissions here. And by the way, notice that we have this publicly accessible on the top now since we added our bucket policy that makes them publicly accessible, AWS is going to give you a bunch of red alerts and say, hey, the data in this bucket is accessible by the public. All right. So we're going to go down here and change our bucket policy and we are going to modify. But first, let's go back to our objects and let's grab some of the arms of our object. So we're going to click on the Arn here. So I'm going to copy that. We're going to go back to our bucket, back to permissions and modify our bucket policy here. So we're going to make a few changes here. Let's go ahead and just change this instead of just list. We're just going to change this to read and S3 list bucket. We're going to get rid of that and we're going to change this to get object. All right. Because that's what we want to do. And now the resource, what we're going to do is replace that with the arn of our one object. All right. So we'll be able to view this one object. We won't be able to view everything inside of the bucket. So I'm going to scroll down here and click on Save Changes. All right, So we've got that. So we should be able to see Avatar Dot PNG publicly, but no other object. So we'll go back to objects, click on Avatar, click on our. Object URL. And there we go. We can see my little avatar here. Now, if we go back, select a different object, maybe this bucket with objects and select that we get an access denied as expected because we only permitted access to our avatar dot PNG. So if we wanted to view everything inside of our bucket, maybe this bucket is serving up images for a public website or something like that. We would simply go into permissions, go down to our bucket policy and edit that. And rather than just providing access to Avatar, maybe we simply provide access to everything in our bucket with Star. So we'll go down here and click Save Changes, and now we go back to our objects and now we should be able to see anything inside of this bucket. So S3 bucket with objects, if we click that, hey, that worked, looks good, we can access that publicly. And of course we look at any of our other objects in here, click on that one. We can see that one as well. All right. So that showcases how we can make both a bucket public by using the list bucket permission and only giving access to list what's inside the bucket versus being able to get the objects that live inside the bucket. And then we also modify the permissions so we can see just a single image in there. Not everything. Or we can also modify the permissions to give access to everything inside the bucket. Now, the other thing I want to show real quick is that if we had a prefix in here, we had certain files inside a specific prefix instead of star, we could just put images and then slash star. So if we had all of our images inside a prefix called images inside of our bucket and we didn't want to give access to anything else in our bucket except for our images, well, we could change the resource to simply include everything under the prefix of images, and folks on the internet would only be able to retrieve files and objects that lived inside of the images prefix there. All right. So again, pretty flexible in terms of how you can do that. By the way, You can also add different things, like you can add Avatar dot PNG and you can put a comma after this, right? And then you could also add additional ones. So if you want to add two additional files. So we could do that, we could simply copy this onto a new line here and say we had, I don't know, one was called buckets or something like that, and then we can finish out our bracket. And now this would give access to get object for Avatar, PNG and bucket PNG only. Right. Nothing else inside of our bucket. All right. Now, of course, we don't have the images prefix inside of our bucket right now. It's just an example. But if you have multiple files that you need to give access to, you can simply add a comma, add multiple things in here, Brian whatever, and you can add your individual files in here and give access to only individual files as needed rather than the entire bucket.

---

### Lecture: Cross-Account Access for S3 Buckets and Objects

So in this one, we're going to talk about granting cross account access to our buckets. Where would I actually need cross account access? Well, the first example in here is if you are an organization and you have multiple accounts within your organization, you may need to grant cross account access between your accounts in order to write data. So most organizations that I work with or organizations that I've designed architectures for, well, we always have multiple accounts. We want to go ahead and create a production account, a dev account, QA account, maybe multiple sandbox accounts. Most of the time there's like a network account and all that good stuff and we have multiple accounts within our organization. Almost always I will create a logging account and inside of that logging account. Well, there's a logging bucket in there when we have this multi account architecture, when we have prod dev, QA sandbox, any time that we set up logs inside of this account, we want to go ahead and send these logs to our logging bucket. When we do this, what happens is the log data is now secured in a different account and in the event of an account compromise, the attacker would not be able to delete the data, since it actually doesn't exist in that current account. That log data is now in another account. Now cross account access can be beneficial for implementing things like backup or disaster recovery strategies as well. You can configure backup accounts to have read only access to the primary account S3 bucket, enable it to replicate or backup data for disaster recovery purposes as well. Now another example here is if you want to share data that's stored in your S3 bucket with another bucket cross account access allows you to grant, read or write permissions to a specific bucket or objects. This can be useful if you're collaborating with partners or clients or other departments within your organization. So by using cross account access, it can help facilitate compliance with regulatory requirements or internal governance policies. By segregating this access to data stored in different accounts, you can enforce stricter controls, you can monitor access to it and easily maintain an audit trail for your S3 data. So how is this all configured? Well, if we're going to use the example of the partner account that needs access into our bucket, the first thing we need to do is, well, we need to look at our account. We have our production account, which account number, 180400, whatever. We have our bucket in there called prod data one, and we've got some objects inside of that bucket. Now we've got our partner account and this account is for 2042281, whatever. We have a user in there called Brian and this user name Brian has a policy associated with it called prod user. And this user wants access to our bucket. So what we need to do inside of our partner account is we need to modify or update the policy called prod user to provide access to this bucket. That's going to be step one. So what we would do in inside of that policy, we would say, okay, you can get objects, you can put objects, or you can put object ACL for S3 bucket called prod data one. So that's what the policy would look like inside of our partner account. And that policy is associated with our user called Brian. By the way, I do not have bright red hair like that. So again, the resource here is what we're really focused on. That bucket actually lives in another account. But because remember, naming is global for us, we don't have to specify the account name here. That's step one is configuring the policy for the user in the partner account, and that provides permission to access the bucket. But we still need to go ahead and modify the bucket policy to permit that access just by granting that user access to the bucket in the partner account. Well, they're separate accounts, so it doesn't matter. I can give all the access I want in the partner account, but if I don't modify something in the production account to allow that user to access to my bucket, it won't matter. That is going to be step two here. Step two is we need to configure the bucket policy that grants permission to the user in the other account so that bucket policy may look something like this, very similar to what we saw before. But notice in this case that the principal actually points to our user name, Brian, in our partner account. So if you look closely at the principle, we have Arn AWS Iam and notice the account number is actually the account number for our partner account. And then we have user Brian there and the action is get object put object and put object ACL. And again the resource is the bucket inside of our account called prod data one. So again, configure it by adding permissions in Iam for the user in the. Count where the user lives. And then, of course, we need to configure the bucket policy itself to permit that cross account access for that user. So again, this can be through a role as well from the partner account or it can be a user, just depending on how you configure your partner account, like how users authenticate to their AWS accounts. But again, this is just an example of using an Iam user and providing that cross account access to another bucket. So hopefully that's helpful. You better understand how to perform cross account access for your bucket in the event that you're working with partners or clients or customers or whatever and you need access into their bucket or they need access into yours, you should be able to confidently go and deploy your permissions in order to do that. So that wraps up this section. Hopefully it was useful for you to better understand how to secure access to your S3 bucket, and we'll look forward to seeing you in the next section.

---

### Lecture: Amazon S3 Presigned URLs

All right. So in this topic, we're going to cover Amazon S3 pre signed URLs. Now, pre signed URLs are a way that we can provide temporary access to some of our objects that live in our S3 bucket without having to make them publicly available or ensure that people don't have long live access to our objects. All right. So let's check it out here. All right. So say, for example, we want to access our content and well, maybe we're a training company, right? Providing Amazon S3 training. Now, we've stored all of our videos inside of our bucket called training Videos. And as a training company, we have different subscribers and these subscribers obviously want to view our training videos. So all of these users are going to use our Amazon S3 training company application and all these users want to view our videos that live in our bucket. So how do we share our content with only certain approved users? And remember, these are users that aren't necessarily users within your AWS account, right? You're providing services to different folks around the world that are subscribing to your app or subscribing to your service. And we want to make sure that those videos are accessible only by our paid subscribers and not just anybody on the Internet. So let's take a look at another example. Maybe we are a company and we work with a bunch of different partners and we are storing all of our partner data inside a bucket called partner data. Now we have an external user, right? They are a partner rep, so they don't work for us, but they need access to our data right now. We don't want to make the bucket public because, well, we don't want anybody else to gain access to that data and we don't want to break any of our security policies and start enabling certain people on the Internet to gain access to it, maybe by IP address or, you know, ensuring that this user has an AWS account or something like that. So how do we actually share our content with only certain approved users without impacting our bucket security? Right? We don't want to have to go and modify our bucket policy in order to allow our partner rep temporary access to some of our data. Well, in order to do that, we can use pre signed URLs. Now, pre signed URLs provide us a way to give users temporary access to a bucket or objects. And this is done using a time limited URL that we can generate. Now these URLs can use by traditional end users, right? A human being to access the data or they can be used by an application that can go get or put objects in the S3 bucket. So in our example of our training content, right, we can provide the application with a temporary URL and then their phone or their iPad or their laptop or whatever can use that pre signed URL to go stream those videos. Now when you provide a pre signed URL, the user or the app will inherit the permissions of the user role or token that actually generated the URL and the URL can actually be used multiple times until the expiration date and time. So let's take a look at those two examples. But now we're using pre signed URLs. All right, So for our example for video training, maybe we have a new content creator and this new content creator is using our app and they want to upload a new video to our application. Maybe they are creating new content and they want to upload it for approval or for new users or students to be able to view it. Right. Maybe it's a new certification course. Well, our app currently runs on EC2 and what's going to happen here is our EC2 instance is going to use our attached instance profile to make an API or a CLI request to S3 in order to generate that pre signed URL using those temporary credentials from that role. Now after that, S3 is going to return that pre signed URL back to the app and then the app can return that pre signed URL back to the user's application and ultimately that user can use that pre signed URL to access the bucket and upload a new video. All right. So rather than changing our bucket policies or our ACLs or modifying the public permissions of our bucket, we can simply provide the application or the user a pre signed URL. They can use that URL to do a get or a put. In this case they're doing a put because they're uploading new videos. All right. So that's one way that we can use pre signed URLs to ensure the security of our bucket or our objects and only provide temporary access to do so. All right. Let's take a look at our other example of our partner user. So again, we've got our external user, our partner rep, and this partner rep wants to download some data from our bucket. Maybe it's a customer report or a sales report. Well, on the other end, on our side we have our bucket owner. Maybe this is the admin that owns the account. So what's going to happen is the external user, our partner rep is going to make a request to get some data. Now the bucket owner is going to log into AWS or use the CLI or API to generate a pre signed URL. And of course the pre signed URL gets returned back to the bucket owner. Now the bucket owner is going to send that pre signed URL to the user, right? Maybe it's the email, maybe it's through Slack, maybe it's through some other kind of messenger. And of course this partner rep will now use the pre signed URL to perform a get object to our bucket. And of course now we send the object back to the user. So the user, our partner rep now has temporary access to our bucket and can retrieve the data that they need from our bucket without us having to modify any permissions on our bucket itself. All right. So who can create a pre signed URL? Well, an Iam user can. So if you log into the AWS management console or you're using the CLI or the API, you can create a URL for your bucket that's valid up to seven days. Now if you're using something like STS, you can create a URL that's valid for 36 hours. And finally, if you're using an instance profile, write a role attached to one of your EC2 instances. You can create a URL that's valid for up to six hours. All right, let's talk about URL expiration now, a pre signed URL. Again, I mentioned that it provides temporary access. That means at some point that URL is going to expire. Now, when you create your pre signed URL, you're going to signify how long you want that pre-signed URL to be valid for. However, the pre signed URL will expire when the token or the temporary credentials expire, even if that URL has a later time. So let's take a look to see what I mean on this timeline here. Say on day one we go create our new pre signed URL and we say, You know what? We want this to be valid for seven days. Now, maybe in this case we used STS in order to assume a role and those credentials are only valid for, I don't know, three days. Now, what's going to happen here is that when those credentials expire, maybe on day three, well, our URL is also going to expire here as well. So in this case, the URL is valid from day one to day three, but is not valid from day three to day seven. Even though we made the pre signed URL valid for seven days, if the credentials that created the URL are expired, then the URL also expires with it. All right. So that's just something to keep in mind. Now if you're using like a long term user, maybe I don't know an Iam user that you don't rotate the credentials very often then that you may not have a problem with that. But if you're using something like STS or an instance role that provides very short credentials in order to access different APIs throughout AWS, then that may be something that you keep in mind here. So that explains URL expiration. In terms of the credentials, remember, when you create the URL, you signify how long you want it to last. But again, if the token or credential that created the URL expires before that, well, the URL also expires with it. So that's pre signed URLs for you. Again, an easy way to provide different users access to objects in your bucket or provide users or applications. Ways to put data inside of your bucket without modifying your permissions like your bucket policies and ACLs on your bucket itself. So we're going to jump into the console, take a look at this and make sure we better understand how and why we would use a pre signed URL with Amazon S3.

---

### Lecture: Demo - Amazon S3 Presigned URLs

All right. Welcome back to the AWS management console. We're going to showcase pre signed URLs here and see how we can create them to access our objects. Now, of course, we've got our list of buckets here and we already know based upon our previous labs, that our Amazon S3 Deepdive public bucket is well, public. And of course it shows us right here that we have objects that are publicly accessible. However, our Amazon S3 Deepdive bucket is not public. So let's take a look at that. If we go into the bucket, we click on permissions and we scroll down. A we already know that. Block All public access is turned on, which means that none of the objects inside of our bucket are going to be public. Additionally, if we look down at our bucket policy, well, there's no policy to display. There's no policy attached to our bucket. So we know that none of the objects should be publicly accessible. And of course, to prove it, I can click on objects, I can click on our avatar and click on our object. And of course, we get access denied as expected. However, what happens if we want to provide access to one of these objects? But we don't want to modify our block public access settings and we don't want to add a bucket policy to our bucket to make them publicly available. Well, what we can do is use our pre signed URLs. So what we can do is we can go into one of our objects here. So let's just look at our course cover. So we're going to click into our object here. And of course we have things like our Uri and all that good stuff. Again, if we click on the URL, we get an access denied as expected. However, if we want somebody to be able to access it, we can go ahead and create a pre signed URL. Now to do that underneath object actions up here on the top right, we can simply click that and say share with a pre signed URL right here and it's going to pop up and say, hey, anyone can access the object with this URL until it expires. All right. That's cool with us. That's exactly what we want. Now, the only thing that we have to specify about our pre signed URL is the expiration time, so we can specify that in minutes or hours. So in this case, maybe we want to have our URL expire in five minutes. So we're going to add five there and then we're going to create the pre signed URL. Now it's automatically copied to your clipboard, but you can also see it up here in the top, right? So if we were to open up a new tab and add our URL and with our pre signed URL, we can access our objects inside of our bucket because we can use that pre signed URL. Now if you look at the URL at the top, we have Amazon S3 Deepdyve and then we have course Cover.jpg. But after that we have all the additional things around security token and all that good stuff that are part of our query that are basically created by us hitting that pre signed URL. Okay, so if we exit out of here and we hit the object URL without the pre signed URL, of course we get an access denied. So we would need to use that pre signed URL in order to access this object that is not publicly facing. All right. So this is an easy way that you can do it straight in the AWS management console. Now, if you're going to use a pre signed URL in your environment, I'd be willing to bet that 99% of the creations of pre signed URLs and the distribution of those URLs is going to happen inside of some application. We talked about our training company and giving users access to our content that lives on S3 and we probably want to put a time limit on that access, right? Maybe their subscription renews every day, every week, every month or whatever, and we don't want to give them long term access to our content because if they are no longer a subscriber, maybe they don't have access to our content any longer. Now it's the same thing. If you are a mobile app developer, maybe you have assets in your S3 bucket that you want to give your subscribers or your paid subscribers access to. In this case, your app would internally generate a pre signed URL against S3 and of course the application can use that URL in order to access certain assets that live inside of your S3 bucket. So that's how you're probably going to find pre signed URLs use the majority of the time is within an application. However, if you're working with a partner rep or something like that and they need temporary access to something inside of your bucket, well this is a super easy way to do it. Of course you can log right into the AWS management console, click on the object, click on object actions like we did before. Grab that URL, send it to your user, and of course they can access your data.

---

### Lecture: Student Challenge Solution - Securing Access to Your Bucket

All right. Welcome to our Next Student Challenge, where we are going to look at securing access to our bucket. And in fact, we're going to permit access to our bucket, right? That's our student challenge. So let's take a look at it. Marketing is ready to start testing the website, but it's encountering an error when trying to access the assets in our bucket. Now you need to ensure that the assets in the bucket are now publicly available. So let's look at our instructions here. The first one is disable S3 block public access to ensure that we can use only bucket policies to make objects publicly available. All right. So let's go back into our bucket here. Now. We're already at our bucket to modify the S3 block public access. We're going to go into permissions. We're going to scroll down here and it's right here. You can see that it is turned on. So we're going to click on edit. We're going to uncheck this box at the top. Now, since we only want to use bucket policies in order to grant access to our account and not ACLs, we're going to go ahead and leave these two checked. That way nobody can make anything publicly available using ACLs and we don't have to worry about troubleshooting between bucket policies and ACLs. We just need to focus on bucket policies. If we leave these unchecked, that means we can use a bucket policy to make objects publicly available in our account. So this is the setup that you need to do. Click on Save Changes. We're going to confirm our changes here and that's all we need to do. You can see now that it is off. However, if you go to edit, right, we have our configuration. Awesome. So that meets our requirements for number one. Let's take a look at the second one using a bucket policy, make the contents of the S3 bucket public so they can be accessed by users of our website. All right. So to do that, we're going to go up here. We're going to go in permissions. We're going to go down to bucket policy here and click on edit. Now, one way you can do this is you can easily just select a statement over here on the right and create it here. Or you can simply paste in the policy that allows public access to a bucket and that can be found on my GitHub. So again, I'm going to paste that in. You can see allow public list and actually we're going to do allow public read here. Allow the principal is going to be star. That means anybody the action is going to be get objects. So we're going to change that to get object. And then the resource here is going to be our bucket. So our bucket name here is right at the top. So we'll go ahead and just highlight that may be easier just to click on copy right there and we'll highlight everything. We'll paste it in there. And of course we want access to all the assets inside of our bucket. So we do slash and then star and that's going to give access to get any object inside of our bucket. All right. So that's all we need to do down there. We're going to go down here, we're going to click on Save Changes and now we have access to any of our objects. So let's go test it out. So we go over to objects and we click on blog and we have our laptop, our site, our working Jpeg or whatever. We can click on that and we can click on our object URL right here and it should come up, right? So because I'm using Chrome, I'm accessing the public URL and we can access any of the images that are inside of our bucket or any of the objects that are inside of our bucket. So if we go find another one, maybe we go to product and we find the S3 Bucket logo and we click on that and that comes up as well. All right, so we've successfully made our objects inside of our bucket public. Now, if you're worried about this in your own account, don't worry about it. These are very basic images, right? And this customer sales, that's actually just a fake PDF that I've created. Right. And actually at the bottom it says fictional sales report for this course. Additionally, any of the other objects that are in there are public files. So if you go into blog, any of these Covid 19 stats, this is a publicly available PDF that I pulled down so you don't have to worry about inadvertently sharing data that should not be shared on the Internet. This is all just basic JPEGs, PDFs, things like that. So don't be worried by sharing this in your own bucket. All right, so that's it for this challenge. We met all of the instructions and the requirements. So by completing this, we learned how to make objects available to the public and of course update the default bucket settings to enable the functionality required by our organization's workloads.

---

*Section 7 of 15 uploaded. Confirm receipt and await next upload or GENERATE command.*
